first i need to know how do you feel about sending an elderly family member to a nursing home ? 
of course , it 's one of the last few things in the world you 'd ever want to do unless it 's just really for their own good . 
i 'd be very very careful checking them out . 
she had a rather massive stroke about eight months ago . 
and i was fortunate in that i was personally acquainted with the people who ran the nursing home in our little hometown . 
so , i was very comfortable in doing it when it got to the point that we had to do it . 
i had an occasion for my mother-in-law who had fell and could not take care of herself anymore , was confined to a nursing home for a while 
that was really not a very good experience . 
it had to be done in a hurry . 
we did n't have six months to check all of these places out . 
and it was really not very good deal . 
we were not really happy with , nursing home that we finally had . 
fortunately , she only had to stay a few weeks 
and she was able to return to her apartment again . 
is there something else we could have done in checking out all the places that might be available . 
of course there 's not one on every corner , especially smaller areas , smaller towns . 
probably the hardest thing in my family my grandmother , she had to be put in a nursing home 
and she had used the walker for quite some time , probably about six to nine months . 
and she had a fall 
and finally she had parkinson 's disease , 
and it got so much that she could not take care of her house . 
then she lived in an apartment 
and that was even harder actually . 
because it was just a change of location 
and it was very disturbing for her because she had been so used to traveling . 
she had children all across the united states 
and she spent nine months out of the year just visiting her children . 
and that was pretty heart-rending for her . 
i can imagine . 
that 's tough . 
that 's tough . 
for somebody who for most of their life has , not just merely had a farm but had ten children had a farm , ran everything because her husband was away in the coal mines . 
and facing that situation , it 's quite a dilemma . 
go ahead . 
all the brothers and sisters got together 
and they actually had a conference . 
that 's great . 
and it was probably one of the most strengthening things for our family , getting down together and doing that . 
that 's right . 
and just the children were involved in the decision , because it involved just them . and , making that decision and then finding a place 
and everybody had duties to perform . 
whether it was just giving money or whether it was actually taking part in a lot , of the decision making like finding a proper nursing home . 
you were very , fortunate . 
i know . 
and they had seen it coming . 
i truly wish that if something like that were to happen that my children would do something like , that for me . 
unfortunately , a lot of times responsibilities like that seem to fall to maybe one child in the whole family . 
and it 's usually not a very smooth thing . 
i was lucky too that i only have one brother . 
and fortunately , we agreed on exactly what we thought should be done . 
my mother also was very independent . 
she still had her own little house and still driving her own car , at age eighty-three . 
we were lucky in one respect in that after she had her stroke she was n't really much aware of what was going on . 
that nursing home life would not have been anything of her choosing , 
of course , she would not have been happy there at all . 
but as it turned out the stroke took care of that concern for us . 
she was very well aware 
and her daughter came and visited her 
at least her daughter , came and visited her 
and also her several grandchildren , came and visited her every day . 
that 's great . 
it was more of a relief for her . 
but she was truly aware . 
i do n't know how i would deal if one of my parents came with alzheimer 's . or something like , that which is far more devastating . 
that would be tough . 
and i think that one thing that they were concerned probably was the fact it was n't necessarily the quantity of care but the quality of , care . 
that the people that worked there were very interested , to make it as close , as possible . 
i think , for myself i see that as probably what everything would hinge upon . 
how close is it to a home environment . 
that 's right . 
that 's probably the major question . 
i think that great strides are being made nowadays in caring for the elderly in a whole lot of areas . 
just people are , of course , populations getting older . 
matter of fact in the united states we used to have extended families . 
but , i guess as we become more industrialized and less in a rural situation we choose not to deal with the , extended family because we feel it 's kind of cumbersome , when in reality it makes things much much easier . 
that 's right . 
and , things are scattered so much nowadays . 
i think that perhaps the extended family it maybe one of the solutions to a lot of things even child care . 
of course there comes other issues whether we feel like they 're going to be a good caretaker for our children . 
just because they 're grandparents . 
they raised us after all . 
just because they 're grandparents that does n't automatically make them a good child carer . 
but i think that i 've had a lot of good experiences with many people especially where they 've had extended family . 
money seems to be too big of an issue . with what 's going on today 
realistically it is . 
and i think that may be , perhaps if we put money on the back burner that may choose to alleviate a lot of the problem . 
that would , certainly help . 
we may not have as high a standard of living 
but actually have a truer standard of living . 
that 's just a matter of defining priorities or some priorities anyway . 
i think you 're right . 
i guess that was it . 
it was good talking to you . 
take care . 
cynthia . 
what did you wear to work today ? 
let 's see . 
what did i wear to work today ? 
actually i wore corduroy shorts with a white blouse and flat shoes . 
so , can you dress pretty casually ? 
on occasion . on occasion . 
i do vary . 
i wear suits , 
i wear skirts and sweaters . 
on occasion i can wear jeans . 
how about you ? 
i run a business out of my home . 
so i tend to get up in the morning , put on , sweats do whatever i want to do with the kids , 
then whenever i have a meeting with a client , i 'll put a suit on . and then come home and get back into regular clothes again . 
there 's no real dress code where i work . 
you see people wearing all different attire . 
i do n't like to wear heels , 
that really tires me out . 
i work in a big building . 
so , i predominantly wear flat shoes . 
in the winter i wear sweaters , 
in summer i like one piece dresses , short sleeves , things like that . 
i 've recently tried to update my wardrobe , trying to put suits together that i can interchange , the , jackets and the blouses and all that a lot . 
i can only have a limited wardrobe , since i 'm only , working part-time right now . 
but still , it gives it some variety . 
add different blouses and scarves and belts and things like that . 
accessories , 
what about your casual wear ? 
do you like to wear jeans most of the time ? 
mostly . 
at home i predominantly wear sweatpants and things like that , also . 
it 's nice you can wear shorts , especially on a day like today when it 's so hot . 
dress shorts . 
they 're black corduroy bermuda shorts . 
and sometimes i wear a blazer with them , 
and i get really a lot of compliments on them . 
where i work is predominantly male . 
their attire is always the same . 
suits or slacks jeans , whatever . 
but i 'm really the only woman at work that does that , 
but seems to work for me . 
it 's one of those skorts , , 
it 's shorts 
but it looks like a skirt . 
so , i think that 'll be good for work , too . 
it 'll be comfortable . 
we just recently moved to texas , 
so my wardrobe has changed quite a bit . 
and i have a closet full of sweaters . 
i live in virginia . 
you live in virginia , now ? 
that 's interesting . 
right now , today was in about the fifties . 
but i do wear a lot of sweaters and things like sweater dresses . 
i 'd like to be able to wear those here . 
today it 's eighty-eight degrees . 
needless to say , my sweaters have been hung in the closet for quite a while now . 
today was definitely a shorts day around here . 
we 're still pretty much in winter , as far as that goes here . 
this is pretty unseasonal , 
it feels good , 
everybody does n't have cabin fever today . 
it 's nice to get , out and about . 
i guess we 've discussed everything there is about clothing . 
sounds good . 
it was nice talking to you . 
it was nice talking to you , also . 
this is archie . 
archie . 
i 'm sharon . 
have you seen dancing with wolves ? 
i 've seen that , 
that was a really good movie . 
probably one of the best things about it was the scenery 
and i thought the story was pretty good , too . 
i think kevin costner did a really good job with it . 
have you ever lived in that part of the country ? 
i have n't . 
have you ever visited it ? 
i 've visited the wyoming area . 
i 'm not sure exactly where dances with wolves was filmed . 
i think it was the black hills of south dakota . 
could be . 
i have n't been to south dakota . 
have you been up to that ? 
i lived in omaha for five , winters , 
terrain . 
apparently it 's going to win everything . 
that 's true . 
i agree with that . 
i think it 's been nominated for twelve awards 
and all the critics initially said that it would n't go anywhere , that it was just going to be a dud . 
so , it has surprised everybody . 
the interesting thing is i had heard that , 
and i tend to overreact occasionally when somebody tells me it 's that great . 
and the thing is , it was a good story . 
and i guess that 's what i really like . 
although , i must admit i did look at my watch after about an hour . 
did you ? 
have you seen sleeping with the enemy ? 
i 've heard that 's really great , though . 
you have to go see that one . 
and how about silence of the lamb ? 
go . 
you must really keep up . 
i do . 
i go every weekend . 
those are two definite must see movies , i think . 
is it a terror movie 
or is it just suspenseful ? 
it 's suspenseful . 
there 's not really any blood and guts in it or anything like that . 
it 's more suspense . 
the other one , silence of the lambs , is kind of a gory movie , if somebody 's not into that kind of stuff . 
it 's pretty graphic at points . 
but i think they 're both excellent movies . 
do you listen to gary cogill ? 
do you know who he is ? 
somebody in south carolina told me about him . 
he 's the movie critic . 
he 's a movie critic on channel eight in dallas . 
and he has a talk show on the , k l i f . 
anyway , it 's on from seven to nine , or something . 
and people call in 
if you keep up with movies , it 's kind of interesting . 
there 's a certain a mount of dribble that they do . 
they 've got a couple of kids , ten or twelve years old , 
and they call in 
and they review movies . 
it 's interesting . 
you listen to him 
and then you go watch the movie . 
i was listening sunday night a little bit when , i was going to pick up my daughter . 
it 's interesting , though , 
the difficulty with dancing with wolves is that when you make a movie like that , and you produce it , and then you star in it the question is , did he really know it was going to be good 
or did he just do it ? 
his heart was in it , 
but i do n't think he really knew it was going to be as big as it was . 
i think it was something that he really wanted to do . 
he wanted to direct it , 
he wanted to star in it . 
he enjoyed the story line 
and i think he really wanted it . 
and whether it won all kinds of awards or whether it just was okay at the box office , i think he would have been happy . 
because i think he did a good job 
the self-satisfaction he got out of it is much greater than any awards that they can give him . 
do you know who the guy was that was playing the wagon driver ? 
a little piece of trivia . 
the guy when he first headed out from the army post . 
who , 
i do n't know who that guy is . 
he plays on murphy brown . 
he does ? 
he 's eldon , her housepainter . 
as a recurring character every week ? 
can you , believe that ? 
i 'd a never put those two together . 
that 's one of those interesting pieces of trivia that somebody said , 
did you notice that ? 
i thought , , 
it 's really funny . 
you think back , 
and 
it was him , but with the beard and all that stuff . 
real scruffy looking . 
real scruffy looking , 
and it was really funny that he winds up playing in the movie . 
it was a lot of fun . 
i do n't know how long this conversation is supposed to go 
but we 're at about five minutes . 
i should think we 've done enough . 
you think so ? 
i have n't been watching my watch . 
i guess , 
does it usually cut off ? 
is that what , it does ? 
i do n't know . 
why do we end this thing ? 
it used to just automatically cut off 
i think it just says hang up . 
but it says when the conversation is over just say your good-byes and hang up . 
so , i guess so . 
why do n't we do that ? 
sharon . 
good talking to you archie . 
the first thing for me is i see a couple of different ways of talking about what privacy is , 
if an invasion of privacy is something that disturbs your private state , that 's one thing , 
and if privacy is something that comes into your private state and extracts information from it finds something out about you that 's another . 
and the first type of privacy seemed invaded to me , and very much everyday in this country , 
but in the second time , at least overtly where someone comes in and finds out information about you that should be private does not seem obviously , everyday . 
i think i agree with that . 
i think in a good example on the typical thing that happens when the phone rang and it 's t i calling , my immediate reaction is that it 's some sort of strange phone message 
and then i realize , this is something i solicited , 
that 's right . 
so my immediate reaction was one of that sense of invasion 
but after that i realized , i really wanted this 
and it was sort of exciting 
and so , that was almost an example of an invasion that turns out to be not invasive . 
it turned out to be an invitation . 
and at the same time i think that i receive on the order of probably , seven or eight a week calls of the nature where one wishes that there were a convenient way to just hang up on it . 
from personal parties or from these phone commercial things . 
commercial , solicitations primarily . 
that 's a remarkable number . 
i get them rarely 
and i 'm still astounded that one , they let anyone do them and two , that they have any effect in this whatsoever . 
because i 'm usually so insulted by them i just hang up as soon as i recognize what , they are . 
i think they prey on people 's inherent politeness on the phone even with the machine . 
i find people being kind of polite and waiting for it to finish what it has to say , 
and then they feel an obligation to respond even though there 's not even a person there . 
and i think that 's what makes one feel invaded is the fact that there seems to be little control 
and one 's feeling obligated , because of some sense of the way the ritual is played out . 
and , that then ends up being the most common example for me . 
i guess i 'm not typically feeling invaded in my privacy relative to this one that you raised . 
and i do n't think i would have thought about that . 
i think that 's a good idea on your part . 
i do n't typically feel intruded on , on the sense of finding out information . 
presumably those who find out such information , if they are doing it , i would prefer not to be known , 
and the classic c i a conspiracy theories or whatever , would have such parties trying to do it without your knowledge . 
so there 's , , things that invade that second type of privacy where you do know about them and possibly things that invade that second type of privacy without you knowing about it , 
and i ca n't talk about the second one other than to generate paranoia . 
it 's a surmise 
and , i 'd like to think that it 's quite low , at least in this country . 
to surmise . it is there . 
i do n't think the k g b is monitoring my phone or anything like that . 
and i 'm not feeling invaded 
then maybe my privacy has n't been because i have no sense of my privacy state having been invaded . 
if you 're defining it in terms of information gone even if it 's something you do n't know about it then i guess one could assume one was invaded 
but i do n't feel invaded by it . 
i do n't , have a sense of threat in general from those sorts of things , 
i 'm not sure why . 
i guess it comes from a sense of fact or facts 
and if someone finds out something about me that is true , i do n't have a sense of loss from that . 
you must have a relatively clean conscience then . 
the other side of that might be if someone found out something or surmised something that were n't true then i would feel probably more invaded in the gossipy sort of sense . 
more harmed or something . 
because , you do n't have anyway to turn it off . 
did you hear about this lotus data base that was being put together ? 
i did . 
i was just about to write a letter when i heard they canceled it . 
that would be an example where my sense of threat would be high because i would find that there . 
and that might be the sense of the spending pattern , for instance , that i would have thought to be private . 
but then if it turns out to generate incorrect things , that 's even worse 
they had you pegged . 
and the person who had takes unsolicited phones calls and pays money 
and then all of , a sudden you get your thirty a week because now , they 're advertising you . 
and one of the problems with the lotus data base was that it was uncontrolled access to who would have that information . 
they said they would give it out to only select companies just like software is only given out to customers , 
you ca n't believe that . 
it would be pirated 
and they would n't bother to check that carefully anyway to someone who 's offering full cash price , for it . 
you ca n't tell it , what a company really has to do with it 
and there 's something rather ominous about having virtually anyone , any hacker being able to know what your income is , what your spending habits are , 
and that hacker just has to get in touch with the sneak thief 
and suddenly what started as an invasion of privacy can be an invasion of your actual home . 
and i guess that turns out to be the basic problem with any invasion of privacy is whether or not you 're feeling , threatened as a result of it 
so , maybe that is a little bit of what privacy is . 
i also thought about it waiting to talk to you that , another thing that occurred to me is there is not so much invasion of my privacy because i know how to behave such that there is n't . 
but i realized i have to behave in a certain way in order to not have people invade my privacy . 
if i deviate from social norms of behavior , if i run up and down the street yelling or something , someone 's going to invade my privacy very quickly . 
and i realize that , i can take that for granted 
but i used to live in india 
and things are quite different there in terms of that . 
there 's less of a sense of privacy . 
in fact , it 's said that no indian language has a word for privacy , 
certainly the language i know does n't , but just says a word for loneliness . 
that 's interesting . 
loneliness is the closest you can come , which is really quite different . 
but no concept for wanting to be private . 
it 's generally being alone is not a very desirable state , at least officially . 
doors do n't have latches on them . 
people do n't tend to knock , 
if there 's a door closed and you open it because it 's in your way 
people walk in out 
and , as a westerner in india , i was often surprised , and felt my sense of privacy there was quite invaded . 
that would be culturally shocking . 
it very much is . 
but on the other hand , i realized i could go out on the street and act like a complete lunatic , 
and people would leave , me alone . 
whereas in this country where everyone respects the closed doors very much , if you go out and then act like the lunatic you violate the norms of public behavior . 
people start paying attention to you very much 
and they start asking questions and in the sense are invading your privacy although , if you know what the social norms are quote unquote , you asked for it . 
but it does mean that you have yet another reason to follow a set of social norms . 
which is n't always the case in all cultures , 
and it was n't until i was thinking about it just now that i realized that 's actually something that 's culturally relative . 
that is true . 
i have n't thought about that 
and that it 's fascinating to think a lot of someone who does n't know how to say private . 
i wonder how people have sex , and things like that , 
you go to india 
and the results of sex are quite obvious , , as the population goes up an extra hundred million every few years . 
there 's hope , 
because anyone can be alone for some period of time 
but for me a lot of what i do requires a sense that there 's this invisible barrier around me which people will respect . 
and if that 's gone i really do n't know how to live very well , 
and i really do wonder how people do that . 
that 's interesting . 
are there any other specific things where you feel your privacy to be invaded on a day-to-day basis or either on a growing frequency ? 
all the other classic examples , the jehovah 's witness or mormons or someone knocking at the front door which is more intrusive because i have to really tell someone to go away . 
and there 's that sense of , i have now opened my door 
they now see what i look like , what i live like 
and they 're doing something that normally i really only invite , people to . 
because , any friend , anyone i give my number to is welcome to call me , 
but no one is just welcome to come by my house . 
so that is more of a sense of invasion . 
have you ever gotten one of those calls that is either generated by a computer or somebody going down a list 
and they 're either offering a service 
or they 're introducing some new product in the area 
and normally when they call , you 're either in the shower , 
or you 're in the middle of cooking something 
and you have to stop everything to run to the phone . 
is that one that you 're talking about . 
that was the big one i 'm talking about . 
i work weird hours , 
and invariably just about the time , i 'm going to sleep , the phone tears off the wall . 
and you are trying to crawl out of a half unconscious sleep and answer the phone , 
as soon as you say hello , you hear the click of the recording coming on , 
or you hear somebody all ready starting , reading off a list of stuff that they 've read probably a thousand times that day already . 
that 's true , 
or the ones that are generated by a computer . 
it 's just a computer voice that comes on the line . 
those are the ones that i really , really hate too . 
i 've even had some of them , 
they 're voice activated 
and you 've got to say hello twice before they 'll do anything . 
sometimes i get them on my answering machine at home 
and i hate that when i 've got a whole bunch of messages 
and i go through them 
and most of them are n't from anybody at all . 
we 've got a thing in this country , 
you can have your phone number unlisted , 
but if they 're going to offer these services , or these recorded message , everything , they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them . 
i have an unlisted telephone number , 
but i still get all of those calls 
and then some of them are speaking in a foreign language that i do n't even understand . 
so 
i do , 
i really feel that 's an invasion of my privacy . 
i agree with you on that particular subject there . 
let me see . 
that 's about , that as far as any other everyday occurrences , 
i put a stop to some of them as far as the door to door , either religious groups , or people peddling products . 
if i wanted their products , i would have either gone to the store to bought it , 
or i would have called for their salesman to come out . 
that 's true . 
living in an apartment complex though you ca n't really stop those people from coming around even though they put up signs out front that says no solicitations , 
but they still come up to the front door and walk around . 
so , usually what i do is i 'll call the apartment manager and tell them there 's people coming around , 
and they 're trying to sell something 
or they 're from a religious organization 
and i really hate that . 
i really , really do . 
i had somebody come to the door about two weeks ago 
and it was about nine o'clock at night , too . 
it was n't even what i would consider family hours , 
time to start going to bed 
and it was somebody from the jesus christ of latter day saints , 
and i 've read a lot about that particular sect 
and i do n't particularly care for it , 
so i especially do n't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me . 
i agree with their right to pursue their religion of choice , in whatever manner they want to , 
but i think they should also respect the sanctity of the american home , whether it be in a house or in an apartment . 
i 'm on my turf , 
if i want them there , i 'll call for them , 
otherwise , i do n't want to know they exist . 
i agree with you there . 
if they want to choose that particular religion that 's fine with me too as long as they do n't try and pull me in and drag me in . 
and i do n't like the way that they do it either , 
and , it 's their mission that they do it . 
they go door to door 
and they go out into the public 
and they actually have the teenagers serving two years in an army and two years in going around and doing missionary type work 
and i do n't know , 
i just do n't particularly care for that at all . 
and that 's one thing that i feel really strongly about though , is people coming up to my door , and especially religious organizations and wanting to try and get me to join or become interested in their religion , 
because i have my own . 
the part about where you said the apartment complex puts up signs that says no soliciting , 
i 've got a storm door on the front of the house 
i do n't know how much clearer it can be , 
it 's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting . 
that 's true , 
i did n't go that far 
but 
i probably could do the same thing , 
i do n't have a storm door , 
but i 'm sure i could rig up something . 
but i do n't think that that would stop people . 
it 's like they see that word 
and it says go , instead of stop . 
that would be technically illegal , 
it would be harassment . 
but , i consider an invasion of my privacy , a harassment in itself . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
what else ? 
i believe we 've pretty much summed everything up . 
i know , 
but i remember you talked about something , 
you started off and said , 
let me think , 
you talked about the telephone calls and people coming and soliciting and selling things at the door . 
you said something else . 
i ca n't remember what it was , 
and i thought yeah , 
that kind of touched a nerve right there , 
but we got to talking about the people coming to you at the front door . 
i 'm drawing a blank . 
is our five minutes up ? 
pretty close to it . 
pretty close . 
i 've enjoyed talking with you . 
it was nice talking to you too jim . 
and take it easy . 
thanks , 
this is lois . 
this is lisa . 
and i called from the t i data base calling instructions . 
i got a call yesterday too . 
this is a different subject though . 
there 's really a lot , is n't there . 
i think there really is . 
it 's kind of an easy thing to talk about . 
i think you have to push one 
and then we can start recording it . 
are you ready now ? 
like i said i guess it would be the work force as far as changes in the generations . 
i know because , i know when my mother was going into the work force there was n't very many opportunities for her , 
she 's in her late forties . 
you were expected to stay home and take care of the kids 
and i 've never faced that at all . 
i think now , you go to work when they 're six weeks old , 
and you stay there . 
and i feel like the next generation , you 'll probably just work right along with your husband . 
i think it 's definitely gotten better . 
i do to , 
much . 
and it 's just going to get better . 
it really is . 
because women are in every field now , 
i ca n't think of a field that they 're not involved in . 
i ca n't either , 
not a one . 
and i know at least in the medical field , it seems like they 've come out with a lot further advances as far as female medications and things since women have gotten into the doctor field . 
i do n't think that men really took the time to work on that sort of thing . 
even in washington there seems to be a lot more women involved . 
hopefully , the next generation , it wo n't even be an issue , 
people will just look at you as a person and not as a man or a woman , 
i think that would be the best goal . 
i do too , 
just your qualifications 
and that would be it . 
exactly , 
not what color you are , how old you are , what you 're male or female . 
that would be wonderful , 
i guess it 's kind of an ideal world though . 
i kind of think , maybe in time , that you 'll go by social security numbers , 
and that way they ca n't say they picked a male over a female , female over a male , 
or the way you look , 
your age or anything . 
i think that would be a wonderful way to do it . 
i do to 
just go by your social security number and then look at you qualifications that you have . 
also , with women in the work force they 've gotten a lot more options as far as job sharing . 
as a matter of fact , that 's what i 'm doing . 
is it . 
it sure is . 
that would be great . 
it sure is . 
or , a lot of women i know now and one of my supervisors , when she went on l o a to have her baby , we hooked up a terminal at her house 
and we could send her messages , 
and she kept in touch like that , and basically , just worked out of her house . 
i would just take her the actual paperwork once every week or two , 
and that worked out great too . 
and that 's a real attractive option , if you have the technology for it . 
she just used a phone modem 
and she was like she was sitting in the office , 
so i think that 's real nice too , to come up with different options . 
do you like the job sharing ? 
i do , 
do you ? 
i really do , 
i think it 's great . 
one week she 'll work three days and i 'll work two 
and the next week i 'll work three and she 'll work two , 
that 's great , 
and we just share off like that . 
do you get the full benefits ? 
we get the full benefits . 
that 's wonderful . 
but we 've just really got a wonderful system that we 're working under . 
especially with children , and so many things going on , that would be great . 
it really is , 
and that way we 're not really missing any thing out of children , 
you have your career and your home life , 
and that would be a nice way , especially if you have young children . 
it is , 
it is , 
both of ours is school age , 
but we do n't want to miss any of those p t a -s and all of that . 
my son 's just in day-care 
but even that they have extracurricular activities 
and the older they get the more that you 're involved in that . 
i think it 's great , 
and i look for more of that in the next generation . 
when that subject comes up they can say yes , 
that would be wonderful . 
i do too . 
plus , i bet it cuts down on your absenteeism because you 've got two days off that you can do everything , 
so you do n't have to unless you 're just really sick , or the child 's sick . 
most of the time now it 's just the weekend , 
or just forget it . 
or , what i 've done is found doctors ' and dentists ' office with extended hours . 
that 's been real helpful too , 
my doctor stays open til nine in the evening . 
so that 's real helpful , 
so you do n't have to do it during office hours , run out on your lunch hour . 
i do n't know how many times i 've done that to do something , post office or the bank or any kind of errand , 
it 's always been that way . 
she always worked , 
but it was n't that easy for her to just take off . 
and i know she probably did n't make hardly anything compared to the work that she did . 
i think there is still some discrimination there where men and women work in the same job , 
i think men get paid more , 
i do too . 
but i think that 's improving . 
it 's such a slow process 
it 's frustrating , 
but , you can see that it 's wrong 
and you just want to make it right , 
but at least the wheels are moving forward . 
they really are . 
i think it 's getting better , not worse . 
i should probably get back to my job . 
i know , 
i know the feeling . 
call again . 
i sure will . 
particularly what kind of music do you like ? 
i mostly listen to popular music . 
i listen to it all the time in my car , 
so , i tend to be one of those people who switches stations a lot because i do n't like commercials . 
but i find myself listening to popular music , 
and quite honestly , , i have some little children 
and i , unfortunately , found myself listening to a lot of nursery rhyme music here lately , 
but that 's not by my choice . 
how about you ? 
i do n't have that , experience to share . 
lucky you . 
i switch the stations a lot because i do n't have a cassette player in my car . 
however , i do like a lot of different forms of music 
so i switch quite often . 
i 'm really particular about the type of music that i listen to . 
there 's such a wide selection , 
i like a little bit of a lot of different types of music . 
if it is performed correctly or if it 's done right , or if the version is done right , i like it , 
but , if it 's not , then i wo n't . 
i really do n't , 
how do you feel about rap music ? 
rap . 
it seems to be so popular these days . 
i do n't really have anything against rap music . 
the one thing i do object to about rap music is when it becomes militant , or , if it 's violence oriented . 
i have strong objections to that . 
when it was really just starting . 
when it was just starting , i heard what was called talking blues , which actually is rap . 
the piece of music was about forty or fifty years old . 
and , it was incredible the parallel between it and rap . 
and you listen a lot , 
if you hear a lot of old gospel especially the black gospel . you can really pick it up , 
it seemed to be influenced by a lot of different music . 
a lot of times you 'll hear songs that you know , they 're not original , but have been put to a rap kind of a rhythm . 
and it sounds so much different 
and yet , i have a much younger sister who listens to a lot of rap music 
and she thinks it 's pretty funny how often i know all of the words to songs that she 's listening to , 
and yet , she thought they were brand new , original pieces . 
they do cover versions of , standards . 
that 's right . 
i think it 's kind of absurd the fact that they do n't really give the original artist , or the original composer , the credit that is really due to them . 
seems to be the hot one of today . 
he used wild thing . 
do you remember that song . 
i ca n't remember who the artist was on that . 
jimi hendrix was the original . 
who ? 
jimi hendrix was the original . 
maybe it was n't that one . 
because , it was a living person that i 'm thinking of that said , `` , those are my words . '' 
because they had n't originally gotten permission , from him to use it . 
and , he since then has amended that , and paid them his royalties every time the song goes on 
i do n't know 
it may have been somebody else , because i think that even jimi hendrix did it , 
come to think of it , i think that was a cover version of a john lee hooker song , or something , 
maybe so . 
i , ca n't think . 
it was really old . 
there are so many different songs , 
i 'm i do n't want to listen to this . 
that was really great . 
that was a really good piece of work , 
and then when you hear the cover it 's what are they doing . 
they destroyed it . 
there was a peter frampton song , 
and , then the cover version , i thought , it was pitiful . 
i remember seeing the video of it on m t v , 
and i thought it was hideous . 
i did too . 
i did n't like that either . 
but whatever became of peter frampton . 
he was a phenomenon , 
there was no reason for him to really come into great stardom or anything . 
i think it was in high school . 
i think that probably what did it for him was the fact that he was a good stage performer . 
he was very good . 
i remember i saw him in a huge stadium in philadelphia . 
it was in j f k stadium , if i can remember . 
hundreds of thousands of people is what it seemed like . 
i graduated back in seventy-nine , 
i was really into the album oriented music , even then , 
so i was really familiar with a lot of the a o r type music . 
the album oriented like james taylor , and the beatles , 
and a lot of people they go , they 're better than the beatles , 
and i 'm you do n't know what you 're talking about . 
you can only laugh . 
i guess i can just humor them at this point . 
i guess our age is showing when , we think that . 
but i 've liked a lot of the new music . 
i saw some promise with a lot of the new wave , when it came out back in the mid and early eighties . 
and then i do n't know 
it 's in a very weird position right now . 
i like things like to hear what they call world music . which is using all these natural forms of music 
like paul simon . 
paul simon . 
really that 's not world music . 
but , what paul simon 's doing is great because he 's using eclectic drawing from a lot of different sources and making a synthesis of a new type of music . 
what do you mean by world music ? 
a lot of where they make music that they adapt to another type of listener . 
for example , let 's say you 're taking an original brazilian form of music with a certain style , 
and then you try to make it a little bit more listenable for another audience a north american . 
and , then when they hear it , it 's another form of music , 
and sort of trying to draw out the best sources . 
the best of every type of music . 
there are some types of heavy metal that i really like , 
but i would n't say that i completely like heavy metal . 
world music takes the forms that have really been the cream of the crop , , 
so then it becomes a kind of music of its own , so to speak , 
it becomes a kind of music of its own . 
they use electronic and acoustic interchangeably , 
so a lot of the stuff you hear coming from south africa now , and from west africa , that 's considered world music , because it 's not particularly using certain types of folk styles . 
but , they 're trying to make it somewhat more modern . 
another good example was i heard miles davis , 
and miles davis worked with robbie shoncar , if you can believe it , 
he 's a jazz performer , 
he 's a very good arranger . 
we 're going to have to get off . 
are they trying to , 
i do n't know . 
we 've talked our five minutes though . 
but when i heard his album , i heard it and it was just incredible . 
i 've been listening to that a lot lately . 
i listened 
you hear this guitar , 
and then you hear the muted trumpet . 
me , 
and you never would think that they can actually play together 
we started out keeping a budget about two years , ago , 
we have a computer , here at the house , 
and i made a lotus spreadsheet and went through the year using all of our checkbook to figure out what we spent each time and whether we were over or under for each month 
and then basically since then what i 've done is keep track of it through the checkbook 
because our house payment is once a month , 
that 's our biggest expense 
so i take half of that amount out of my checkbook with each paycheck , even thought it 's really still there , so that i can keep good balance , a running total through the month , 
a running total . 
what do you all do ? 
we 've , taken how much we have write down how much we have coming in each month 
at the beginning of the year we sat down and determined how much we could spend . 
we made up different accounts , 
we 've set a budget for each household expenses , or food , and clothing and entertainment and then our own fun money and just stuff like that 
and then each time we spend something , we write down in a book 
we try to stay within a certain budget , 
is it hard to keep track of it 
or does it work out pretty well ? 
it takes some dedication to do it , 
but it works out real well , 
and you 're staying within your budget 
and everything is working pretty good . 
i have to stay within it , 
if something comes up and you ca n't stay within it then we have a budget for we call our slush fund or something 
and an unexpected comes up , then you do n't feel so strapped . 
you do n't have to go out and borrow it somewhere and do that . 
because we do n't charge anything that we ca n't pay off by the end of the month . 
that 's a good choice , 
we 're trying to do that this year . 
we 've budgeted the money that we were spending on a coda account with t i and then money we were also buying stock with for that year , 
we 've taken that this year , and said we 're going to pay off all of our credit cards 
you 've got paper under your table . 
and we have another loan with the bank , 
and so we hope by the end of this year , that by doing that we 'll be free , and clear . 
to be out of that . 
free . 
the only thing we have , to pay off is a automobile loan and our house payment , 
that 's good to be in that kind of shape . 
we try to stay out of debt . 
what are you all trying to do long term . 
. it 's long term . 
and we just have our life insurance for right now . 
so , we do n't have any long term in stocks , or anything like that right now , 
mostly what we 've done the coda account with t i where we put in so much a month , 
or so much a pay check 
and then they match it . 
that 's what we 're doing . 
so that 's worked out pretty good 
and then , i used to work for t i 
when i retired from there , or left , i took the money that i had in mine and put it in an i r a 
and we had an existing i r a 
so both of us have some money in an i r a that we 're also trying to figure , 
we 're putting it in c d 's right now , 
and then we 're also looking at it in possibly getting a mutual fund . 
when ever we get enough saved we stick it in a c d for a while 
and then if we need it we wait until it 's expired 
john hancock company came out 
and their agent did a long term analysis based on salary and what our goals were on a long term budget in terms of retirement , kids college , paying off the house , buying a different house special thing , buying land and building our own house 
and they did an analysis for us based on what we were putting in and the time frame that we wanted to look at , and then gave us some good information back on whether or not we were going to achieve those goals , or not , and what we needed to do so that we could achieve them and the money we could put in at what time . 
or not , 
that sounds interesting , 
our life insurance guy has come out , 
and he 's determined how much we need if something were to happen . 
that 's the other financial thing i guess that we 've done with our life insurance since i 'm at home now is figuring out what we would need if something happened to my husband , or what he would need if something happened to me , 
that 's a big thing to think about . 
, 
if , something would happen to him , i would n't stay in texas , 
i would sell the house and move back home to my home town , 
and , i would n't stay here in texas , 
so i do n't know what he would do . 
i guess that 's most of my financial plans right now . 
mine too . 
is there anything you 'd like to add ? 
that 's about all for mine . 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
nice talking to you too . 
wonderful touch tone telephone there . 
what kind of books do you enjoy reading ? 
i have a wide variety of hobbies , 
therefore , my reading pleasures are quite wide . 
i get a charge out of texas highway , which is very colorful , 
and not being a native of texas , but being here eleven years have a tendency to find out about the different areas of the state by reading it . 
i 've read that one too . 
i only had a subscription once , 
but my mother always gave me hers 
and i really enjoyed all the little things that you find out about texas . 
absolutely , it 's great the way that it 's broken out and you can set up little trips and day trips and things . 
it 's pretty neat . 
i like photography magazines . 
i do n't take a subscription or anything like that . 
being an engineer in facilities i do read a lot of , building magazines and plant engineering magazines and , read up on different ways to do things and energy management type of magazines 
and , kind of strange because it 's not unusual to see an engineering manual or something laying around the house 
and then i 'll sit up and read just to refresh to keep active on it , 
how about yourself ? 
i have an interest in art , 
so i , frequently purchase and read books , mainly on water color because that 's my big interest at the moment . 
that 's great . 
and i guess i like a variety of things lots of fiction type books . 
right now i 'm occasionally reading on a book about the mardi gras in new orleans and its history . 
that 's fairly interesting . 
i bet that would be , rather interesting . 
that 's self improvement , 
that 's kind of a hobby 
but it is self improvement from the standpoint of probably relaxing . 
i do n't know that i read anything strictly labeled self improvement . 
how about you ? 
i do . 
we have these classes we attend management classes 
and they give you books 
and the last book i read was , at america 's service by carl albrecht . 
it talks about who the customer is and being customer oriented which falls in line with the t i culture here at texas instruments . 
one of its great slogans is if you 're not serving the customer , you better be serving someone who is . 
so that 's all in self improvement to stay focused on who the customer is 
and as you probably well know , all of us are our own customer . 
you 're my customer , i 'm your customer , sort of thing . 
every now and then i 'm loaned a tape i can stick in the car cassette set on the way home to make the drive more enjoyable , talking about better outlooks on things and the philosophy of pat hagerty and these kind of mind stimulating philosophy type . which all betters yourself . 
maybe i am into some things occasionally that i do n't think of in terms of self improvement . 
they are 
but i do n't label it as such . 
like what for example . 
i do n't know , 
i have attended some seminars that had some tapes that went with them , but not so much books although they sometimes have manuals and things , 
but they would be things on how to be successful and sort of talking to yourself getting yourself in gear to sort of pull yourself up by your boot straps and do what you really want to do . convincing you that you need to get on with it . 
so those are self improvements . 
our supervisor subtly bought all of us a book called what every supervisor should know . by a man named doctor bittel , b i t t e l 
and it 's a very layman 's approach towards managing different types of people . 
and the very last chapter is how to manage engineers . 
so it 's interesting , 
here again it 's casual reading 
and it 's not eaten up with a lot of mechanical stuff 
and it 's really excellent fast reading 
i think if somebody would say read these ten books because these are self-improvements , i would probably be turned off to them . 
if he casually just walked into it and put down a stephen king book and i picked up one of them i might be a little more interested . 
i do n't know , 
i 'm not sure i could take too much of stephen king . 
that 's a little heavy for me . 
they 're hard to set down because it 's so interesting 
and , of course , they 're all just a little spookier than the movies , 
but they 're always challenging to get through one of them . 
i have a hard time finishing books . 
i guess i also have been reading a lot of things on quality improvement and that type of thing because that 's what i 'm involved in a lot at work . 
in quality , especially now days that 's almost everything that comes across the airways . 
but i think sometimes the word is a little over used 
exactly right . 
i think we name drop it a little too much and do n't fully understand what it is we 're saying . 
i think it 's just focusing in on the issue and walking your talk 
and all that kind of rolls in together there , 
but that 's just kind of part of it . 
any other comments . 
not that i can think of . 
i think i 'm under my quota a little bit . 
i need to probably make a phone call or two . 
we just started , 
this is true . 
i 've enjoyed it . 
you too , 
and . 
have a good day . 
i do n't know about you 
but where i am we have an extremely lax dress policy at work 
and it varies every day from jeans one day to business suits the next . 
it 's pretty bad , 
but it 's true , 
they tend to try to be real lax 
and supposedly the policy is like we , hire these wonderful creative people 
and we do n't want to smush their creativity . 
we want to go ahead and let them do what ever they want . 
and you really will see people in jeans one day and business suits the next . 
i 'm kind of that way too . 
i work in the legal department 
and where we are now , what we 're doing is some very big lawsuits that happen to have a heck of a lot of boxes of documents . 
and i get to toting around boxes of documents several times a day , 
it always seems like i 'm doing that 
and i ca n't see getting dressed up and wearing heels and stuff when you have to carry boxes of documents around , 
so , if i 'm just going to be there working in the litigation center and doing odds and ends and stuff with the boxes of documents , i dress down . 
but if we 're going to have a meeting , where we 're having the attorneys come in , or other party 's attorneys and stuff , then i normally dress up . 
and i 'll wear a dress and hose and stuff . 
we 're kind of that way too . 
i 'm the same way you are , 
i kind of try to judge from day to day . 
i know where i am we work a lot with the customers 
and we have a lot of government folks come in all the time 
and , if i know that they 're going to be there i try to really watch it and like you say really dress up 
i 've been doing a lot of reorganization the last couple of months the same way you are , 
and it 's just impossible to crawl down on the floor and dig through boxes in a dress . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
it is 
as a matter of fact , i thought i had one funny story 
when i was at t i the first year or so , we were sent out to our record retention facility to look through two thousand boxes . 
we had them in the warehouse , 
and at that point , the warehouse was over across the road 
and it was n't air conditioned , 
and , we were there in the middle of the summer , 
it 's unair-conditioned , 
it was dusty and dirty , 
there was a fan at the very end of the row 
and that was it . 
we thought t i dress code was just dress appropriate to your job , 
we wore shorts . 
we did n't know that was a big no , no . 
and the supervisor from another area came up to us 
and this area where record retention is , there 's only a few people that work there , 
and he knew who worked there , 
he should have realized that we were n't regulars in the warehouse there . 
and he came up to us 
and he just said , who 's your supervisor . 
he called our supervisor and our supervisor 's supervisor , 
and it went up all the way to the head of facilities , complaining that we were wearing shorts . 
he did n't at least say to us , did you know you 're not supposed to do that . 
that could have alleviated a big problem . 
we ended up getting called out on it . 
how awful . 
it sounds like mister power hungry . 
just yesterday , though , i saw a girl in the spine out here at lewisville that had on a pair of shorts . 
and i do n't care , 
you can call them split skirts 
and you can call them culottes all you want 
but these were shorts . 
that 's all they were . 
i do n't care what else you call them , 
if they 're below the knee 
maybe you can call them split skirts . 
if they 're above the knee they turn into shorts . 
and these were n't even really full ones . 
they had a problem out here with it last summer , wearing these shorts that were the real wide full ones , 
and these were n't even those . 
these were pretty short , black , 
and they were very dressy , 
the were black velvet shorts 
and she had on black hose and black heels 
and she looked very , very nice . 
but , you do n't wear shorts to work . 
as far as i 'm considered , she was in violation 
and nobody says anything to them . 
it 's always been a big problem in lewisville in the summertime . 
the management does n't ever seem to want to cut off that this is wear we 're going to draw the line . 
this is shorts . 
and nobody will ever kind of take control and do that , 
so , it always gets annoying because the rest of us are going , we have a pair of those at home too . 
it sure would be cool and comfortable to wear , 
i 've seen some people try to just come in over the weekend because they want to use the texteller machine . 
and they have said no . 
just because you put on a pair of hose with them does n't make them not shorts anymore . 
i 've never seen them do it without hose , 
they always have hose on , 
but still , they 're shorts , 
i do n't care what you say , 
they 're shorts . 
i think t i 's dress code is pretty lax considering everything , anyway . 
i did n't know that e d s has a very strict dress code , 
i had a friend , 
do they really ? 
i had a friend who worked there for a year or so 
and they spell it out . 
for men it 's particular suits the pin stripe , and the particular colors of shirts and wing tipped shoes . 
it is definitely lined out . 
women are not allowed to wear slacks , 
you wear coordinated suits . 
i could n't afford to work there . 
and a particular kind of shoe so high heel , 
it is spelled out . 
when i was looking at her materials when she first started she had her benefits package and all that kind of stuff . 
and it told about the dress code 
and it said , these are the color pastel shirts you may wear , 
or white shirts with this kind of stripe in it for the men and this kind of shoe and , hair just this way . 
t i -s says no shorts and no halters . 
i know , that 's it . 
and e d s is very particular about this , hair cuts , 
it was like you ca n't have such and such facial hair , no beards and just really detailed . 
i do n't know that that would be a good environment to work in . 
i see , 
i do n't know about anybody else , 
and a lot of bosses may say i 'm nuts , 
but i am more productive when i 'm in pants . 
i am . 
i work faster , 
i get things done faster , than when i 'm in a dress and heels , 
and it 's weird 
but i can get so much more done if i 'm dressed comfortable . 
the time we were there at the warehouse we felt really bad because we had another person coming from washington , our outside counsel . 
and she was told that we were going to be in a warehouse 
but she really did n't get the idea that we were in the warehouse part of the warehouse not the office to the warehouse , but the warehouse . 
and she came with skirts , just like she 'd be going into the office . 
and we 'd try to say , did n't you bring any pants or anything . 
we 're out here in the warehouse , 
you got your skid of that wooden pallet of boxes . 
and you 're going to have unload you skid look at the documents in the boxes and then repack your skid . 
she was so hot and miserable in the skirt . 
you ca n't do that in a skirt poor soul . 
she finally tried to go buy a pair of pants 
but it was just completely miserable for her . 
that 's terrible , 
that 's terrible 
i do n't know , 
i just figure , 
sometimes i worry about if i go in in pants , 
and i never ever , ever , ever go in in a pair of jeans . 
but i 'll go in in pants . 
today i had on a pair of navy blue dress slacks and , a peach colored top 
and not cruddy , but not a dress either . 
and sometimes i wonder if stuff like that will hold you back if you do n't dress in your dress for success business suits everyday if upper management does n't notice that and remember that later on , 
but i do n't know if they do or not . 
i see a lot of the managers 
and they 're in jeans , 
we have assistants to the general counsel 
and it 's funny 
because , there 's one that always wears a suit . 
a matter of fact , he 's never seen without his jacket to the suit on , buttoned . 
and then there 's another one who 's a little younger and a little more yuppish 
and he 's always kind of in the khaki pants and a shirt , 
and sometimes he wears the jacket to it . 
and some of the patent attorneys have been real casual in their clothes 
and then other ones tend to always wear a suit with a very starched cotton shirt . 
is n't that funny . 
with the little suspenders or something on 
. we 've kind of had a variety there 
that 's great . 
but , i think a lot of times it 's mainly who they 're going to meet with , 
or they 're meeting with people that they know is going to be dressed that way then that 's how they are . 
if they 're just going to be meeting with t i -ers to talk about a patent kind of thing and they 're engineers that they 're talking too , they dress kind of like how the engineers are dressed 
and they 're usually casual . 
that 's the smart way to do it . 
when they 're meeting with the engineers who they know are going to be dressed down , if they come in , in a six hundred dollar three piece suit , it 's going to make the people they 're meeting with feel very uncomfortable , 
or it would me . 
it 's one of those slippery attorneys coming in here . 
look at this slick guy , 
i wonder what kind of money does he make , 
i can see it now . 
it was good to talk to you . 
it was really enjoyable . 
this is kind of a fun project . 
it really is . 
i 've done some of the other speech programs , 
but we 've never got to talk to another person , 
it was always just talking to the computer . 
so this is a little different . 
it 's kind of enjoyable , 
i 'm really looking forward to it . 
a lot . 
how has it been this week for you ? 
weather-wise , or otherwise ? 
weather-wise . 
weather-wise . 
damp , cold , warm . 
damp . 
we have gone through , what might be called the four seasons in the last week . 
we have had highs of seventy-two , lows in the twenties . 
i do n't even want to tell you what ours has been like then . 
it was ninety-six yesterday , 
i heard about that . 
and we set a record yesterday . 
and , very windy , 
but then today the wind has dropped off , and also , the temperature , 
so , very cool 
i think right now it 's sixty-nine , 
or it feels cool compared to yesterday , but very pleasant , 
no rain in the last month , i do n't think . 
the ground 's very dry 
and our yard work , everything is in bloom , 
so our yard work is pretty tough , the ground being dry , 
but i guess it also brings about allergies , 
we 're having a lot of allergies down here right now . 
everything blooming , 
and the weather . 
and i think a lot of people have contracted spring fever too , 
. had a lot of people out at work for fishing and golfing , reasons and things like that . 
the blue flu , 
the blue flu , or the white collar flu , depending on where you work . 
as i 've said , we have had variable weather . , 
it has been untypically wet for this time of year , 
and , also , we have a lot of green , 
the grass has been growing 
and if you look outside , you would like to go out and mow your lawn , if you could go out and buy a new spark plug , or something along those lines , 
but fortunately it rains 
and you do not have to go out and buy the spark plug . 
but , we 've had an unusually warm spring , 
and i guess we 're still in winter , 
and we have had no snow . 
no snow ? 
to speak of . 
we usually average anywhere from six to twelve inches during the winter 
and this year , as well as last year , we have had less than four inches total accumulation . 
so , it 's been inordinately warm here for this time of year . 
so in that regard , it 's fine , 
but i envy you your ninety-four degrees . 
i thought i heard this morning that in san antonio it was in the nineties yesterday . 
it is . 
down in the more southern and western areas . 
and , of course we are about two hours from the northern border , straight south , 
and , very windy . 
it 's amazing to me because i have only lived in dallas for three years , and i can not believe that the wind blows all the time . 
it does , 
very seldom , if any , 
i ca n't remember a day that i walked out and the wind was n't blowing . 
i spent six years in graduate school in indiana . in the flatlands , 
and it was that way every day . 
rarely a day went by when the wind was less than fifteen or twenty miles an hour . summer and winter , 
so , that you became accustomed to it . 
but otherwise as i said , we have had a relatively mild winter , speaking for this area of the country . 
where did you go to school in indiana ? 
purdue . 
purdue . 
i have a brother that lives in south bend , indiana . 
i 've lived there for eight years myself . 
i 'd always said i was going to go back to school and go to notre dame . 
but , i did n't . . 
you are not from that area originally , i can tell . 
originally i 'm from new mexico . 
i was born in new mexico 
and we lived in south bend for eight years , and then moved to tennessee actually . 
i thought i heard a little tennessee in there somewhere . 
very much , 
very much , 
cause i spent thirteen years there . and then moved to dallas about three years ago . 
you 've moved around as much as i have . 
my father was in the air force , 
i see . 
i worked for the government , 
so i moved much more frequently than i had intended for sixteen years , 
but i guess this is my first conversation in this series . 
i had not received my personal identification number . 
so , i had to call jack godfrey today to ask him what it was , because i had to abort the call last evening because i could n't get on the line . 
i 'm not sure how long we 're supposed to talk . 
it 's just as long as you want to . 
it 's just as long as you want to , and just a reasonable lengthy conversation . 
do you work for texas instruments ? 
i do not . 
i work for g t e . 
and , i was sent an application from jack . 
i 've known jack for some time . 
i 'm in the speech processing business , and have been for a number of years , 
so i was very much interested , in being a speaker for this . 
actually , i work for texas instruments , 
and i 'm an environmental engineer , 
i see . 
and they just published this internally getting people involved . 
that 's really strange . 
i was wondering why we had somebody from maryland though . 
i was saying , do we have a ti in maryland 
i 'm sure you have a representative somewhere in the area . if just nothing more than a business representative or government services representative , 
but i have been a speaker in other similar type of activities . 
and , i know the reason why this is being gathered and the program and so forth , 
so , as i said , i was interested in being a speaker . 
we have n't talked much about the weather . 
i know that 's what we 're supposed to do . 
let 's see , 
i was looking at it , 
i was trying to find out speedy short cuts , 
and i always thought it 's not necessary to measure your time , just to go ahead and enjoy the conversation , and , end it when needed . 
is that with regard to work place engineering , or just the work place environment 
it 's actually waste water . 
i see . 
i 'm actually in the air division , 
and we monitor anything that comes out of a stack , or out of a building , 
or we do have customers that their concerns are in the work place 
and we take care of that , 
the call last evening was supposed to be concerning recycling , in the community . 
and so i had thought a little bit about it before hand . 
but that 's interesting . 
i have a friend who is a planner . a city planner . 
and he models city districts , and so forth does computer modeling . 
he gets inputs from an environmental engineer . . 
actually , our division is corporate wide , 
and we take care of just the dallas area . 
of course we have several plants here , 
but we do air modeling also . 
i see . 
and , i take care of all the air modeling , specifically for the dallas area . 
what we do , we have a weather station , that we get all of this information temperature , wind speed , wind direction , 
and we have a huge chemical data base . 
that 's interesting . 
and our chemical data base , 
so that we know every chemical on site and , its concentration , 
and if anything ever happened a building explosion or something we 'd be able to track chemicals from that building with our weather station . 
we 've got to talk about music . 
and do you like classic rock , or modern rock , or which kind ? 
i guess the stuff that was done more in the seventies , because that 's really when i grew up , 
not a seventies baby . 
so that 's really what i like better , is that kind of music , 
is it disco , 
not that kind of music . 
more like rock like led zepplin type . 
so they can get the doors and led zepplin . 
that 's cool . 
and , how about the rolling stones ? 
i went to their concert last year when they were here . 
that 's when they toured . 
how about pink floyd ? 
i like them . 
i just did n't know that much about music 
and i was n't sure what kind of music . 
it 's very hard 
i listen to heavy metal or classic rock . 
what kind of heavy metal are we talking about ? 
what , 
we 're talking about what they call hard rock . 
give me some examples . 
like bad company , 
what , 
bad company 's not bad , 
that 's not , 
they 're like a c d c . 
a c d c . 
why , 
have you heard of them ? 
and , stuff like that . 
that 's not really hard rock . 
i guess i did n't really consider that heavy metal . 
i think , when you say heavy metal , i 'm thinking about cinderella . 
cinderella is hard rock , heavy metal . 
i do n't really care for cinderella . 
a c d c 's okay . 
but other bands consider it really hard rock . 
it 's like brash metal , which all they do is they have this guitar and they just bang at the guitar , 
and the guitar is set really low , 
i do n't really care for that too much , i guess . 
and , what happens is like everybody gets totally into the music 
and then they start dancing around , 
and they just bump into each other , 
they hit each other with their shoulders , 
and , then , you knock people down , 
and what you do is , you also try to get up on stage and jump down on top of all these other people . 
is that the kind of music that you like ? 
i do n't like that music . 
but , that 's what they do . 
that 's what some people call really heavy metal . 
and the difference between hard rock and heavy metal is the lyrics also . 
and you always thought about suicide . and killing people and stuff like that . 
they do n't talk about that , 
they just talk about life in general . 
like , queen 's reich , if you ever heard of them . 
of course . 
you 're talking queen , 
is that what you said ? 
i said queen 's reich , 
but you got to like queen also . 
because queen was real popular when i was growing up . 
especially a night at the opera ? 
let 's see , 
the one that they have the whole opera singing in the background . 
bohemian rhapsody . 
that was great . 
i heard that the other day on the radio 
and i pumped it up . 
because i just love that song . 
that was a real good one . 
that whole record was pretty good . 
but then , they started going downhill like everybody else . 
that 's true . 
they came up with some pretty weird stuff after that . 
they 're still around , 
they 've got a new c d out , 
i like the old rolling stones . 
i do n't like the new stuff . 
of the stones ? 
i agree . 
the older stuff is the best of it . 
the new stuff 's kind of more like , today 's rock and roll , which i , do n't really care for today 's rock and roll too much . 
for example , i used to like old phil collins . 
an old , genesis ? 
definitely . 
i agree . 
and , then what happened was that phil collins said , i can make money , a lot of money doing this , 
and then he came out with his record no jacket required . 
that was good , 
but it was on his way of going downhill , 
because he said , i can make a lot of money just singing alone , 
and then he came out with the invisible touch , with genesis 
now , i hate phil collins , 
i ca n't stand him . 
because , i look at him 
and i say you were singing at this time , and with these people , 
and you were great , 
and now you 're singing all this stuff that , does n't matter what you sing or what you record , 
it 's still going to be a number one hit . 
and so , that 's what gets me mad . 
but , did you go see that new doors movie ? 
not yet . 
i guess i 've been , kind of considering it . 
have you seen it yet ? 
i saw it when it opened . 
was it really good ? 
it 's like , i was watching siskel and ebert those guys that criticize movies ? 
and , they both loved the movie ? 
they said the music 's great , 
it took me back to the sixties , and stuff like that . 
and then , one of them said , everything is great , 
but i 'm going to give it thumbs down . 
and they go , 
but why ? 
because the end is , really depressing . 
the movie is so well made , 
and the music that goes with it just picks you up , 
i was born in nineteen hundred sixty-nine . 
so , you did n't really grow up with that kind of music then . 
it 's just that the sixties music 's got a lot to say . 
i never found out what a lot of the seventies music had too . 
disco , i do n't like disco , 
i 've never liked disco . 
but i bet you were out there with your bell bottomed pants , 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
mid to late seventies , 
between seventy-five and , seventy-nine , was more my era . 
did you go to college ? 
i 'm going right now . 
that 's cool . 
but 
i did n't go then . 
but i graduated high school in seventy-eight , 
so in seventy-eight rock was starting to get really heavy , 
i do n't know , 
disco was pretty much dead by then . 
so that 's what i mean , 
disco was n't really my time . 
they always say that the seventies was the lowest point in progression , ever in history . 
about music ? 
about everything . 
so , it 's like , nothing happened during the seventies . 
everything happened during the sixties , 
the seventies i do n't know what they 're called , 
the eighties are called the progressive years , or the technology years , because of all the computers and stuff . 
but the seventies got nothing . 
nobody cared to name it . 
that 's kind of funny . 
you 're right . 
i never thought of that . 
the disco years are gone . 
i know . 
can you imagine a big picture of john travolta , 
what is it 
saturday night fever ? 
him just standing there . 
that 's a good example to look for in history . 
from now on we 're going to go from nineteen sixty-nine when they took the first step on the moon , to nineteen eighties . 
what happened in the middle ? 
do n't worry , 
do n't worry , 
you 're not missing anything , 
that 's true . 
except for vietnam . 
it 's like they do n't want to talk about that , 
so they just , do n't name it . 
i guess it was pretty bad times . 
that 's very true . 
let 's see , 
we 've been talking for seven minutes , 
good . 
i have n't even been keeping track . 
i 'm going to leave you alone . 
what are you doing ? 
do you have a family ? 
i was kind of in the middle of supper , 
but it 's not a big deal , 
i 'm sorry . 
i just left it . 
it 's okay , 
somebody tried to call me last night 
but i did n't have my number yet , 
i just got it today . 
and so it 's okay . 
i told them i 'd be available during this time , 
so . 
then have fun doing this . 
it is not , that bad . 
diana . 
have you all been able to do much as a family these days ? 
pardon me . 
have you all been able to do much as a full family these days , all of you . 
we 've gone all kinds of places , 
we go out to dinner , 
we take the kids to the park , 
and whenever my husband has time off or something , we take them to the zoo , 
or we do everything we can possibly as a family . 
do you work outside the home ? 
i do n't . 
i do n't either , 
it makes it a little bit easier that way . 
it does , 
an then my husband enjoys spending time with the kids , 
he 'll take them out just to be with them . 
so you have a break too . 
and we try to teach our kids as much as we can at home , 
we try to spend monday nights and have little lessons with them , and just see how things are going in our family and teach them about their grandparents or something like that . bring out pictures of them so they get to know them 
and , we just do all kinds of fun things like that 
we have family that 's far away . 
it sounds like you might too . 
we do , 
so the only way they know their grandparents is by pictures . 
and phone calls that 's about it . 
and we go to the park 
or we go in the backyard and sit down 
that 's what we mostly do , pretty simple things . 
especially since my youngest one is only fourteen months . 
she 's really getting to the age where she 's playing , and likes to go places . 
and with me being at home and just having the one income you do n't have , this lot of extra money to do a lot of extra things . 
that 's right . 
the kids just think it 's wonderful just maybe to go get an ice cream cone or or go get a bag of m and m 's or something like that , 
that 's a big thrill for them . 
they think that 's a lot of fun . 
so we try to spend as much time as we can . 
our whole weekends are devoted to our children except for we might go out one evening or something , 
but during the day it 's all devoted to our kids 
and they , go to church with us 
that 's true . 
have you ever been to the science place ? 
we have n't lived here too long 
and we went there a couple of weeks ago 
the kids thought that was wonderful . 
i guess there 's science place one and science place two . 
we 've only been in science place two . 
, i 'm not sure which one we went into , 
it was about a year or so ago , when we went . 
the thing that sticks out most in my mind is a kid 's place area . 
they really seemed to go wild in there . 
they had a lot of fun in there 
and there 's some petting , 
and the kids can pet animals and stuff . 
where 's that . 
that 's on plano road , 
it 's in richardson 
you go up plano road , 
it 's a little bit past campbell and plano road . 
and that 's a lot of fun . 
they have tours going through there 
and the kids think that was a lot of fun , too . 
that does sound like fun . 
it 's a little bit of a ways , 
or they think it 's wonderful just to go to mcdonald 's , 
they do n't go for the food 
they go to play around 
and , there 's another place in mesquite called monkey business , 
that 's right . 
and it 's a indoor fun park 
and it has a bunch of different rides for kids . 
that sounds fun too . 
and parents get in free 
and , during the week , it 's five dollars admission per child , all day . 
the petting farm , 
that sounds fun 
i think maybe we 'll try to do that . 
and the one in mesquite is scyene exit . 
the kids just had a wonderful time there , 
you just pay that admission , 
and then all the rides are free . 
of course , they have all the little video games and those little quarter rides to , and stuff like that 
but , they thought that was lot of fun . 
you can have birthday parties there 
an , i think that was better than showbiz pizza cause there 's more for them to do . 
you do n't have to have tokens for everything . 
so they had a lot of fun . 
that does sound like fun . 
i 've gotten some good ideas from you . 
we try to do a lot of things as a family and inexpensively as possible , 
i think , i do n't know if we 've done five minutes 
but i 'm sure that will be good . 
that will be good , 
it was good talking to you . 
it was good talking to you . 
i really appreciate your suggestions . 
no problem . 
take care . 
my favorite show is masterpiece theatre 
and it has been for a long time 
but i feel almost ashamed to say that to anybody now because i have never met anybody who likes it . 
do you by any chance ? 
you do ! 
very much . 
would n't you know . 
as a matter of fact , i prefer public television . 
and i particularly enjoy the english comedies , and the english mysteries . 
i watch mysteries too . 
is that what you 're referring to ? 
that is good . 
do you read ? 
vociferously . 
that 's the reason why i like both of those programs is because they 're kind of based on books . 
and , the plots are more challenging than the sitcoms of regular t v . 
unfortunately for us at least here in the united states , the only access we have to that of course is public television . 
i 'm not a great television watcher in any respect 
what i do watch is usually news and whatever is on public television . 
i also am very fond of great performances , in that regard . 
me too . 
did you stay up late and catch this red dwarf ? 
that was a scream . 
as a matter of fact turner broadcasting , has been broadcasting all of the james bond movies , every night this week , 
so i have concentrated on watching james bond movies , this week . 
i used to like him too , 
he was my hero . 
in fact , i like sean connery to this day . 
they 're showing live and let die at this moment , 
and , it is the first appearance of roger moore as double oh seven . 
he can never cut it . 
that 's true . 
i was just thinking that today , 
he did , well , in some of the later movies 
he looks very effeminate , in his early movies . 
he does . 
whereas sean connery has maintained the ruddy look , 
i liked his accent too . 
and , he can even be in movies that are not sexually oriented , 
and he still comes off great . 
last year or year before last , he was voted the sexiest actor in movies , or something . 
he is . 
he had my vote double . 
the man is sixty-two years old . 
i do n't care . 
and i particularly enjoy the series yes minister ? 
what 's that about ? 
that was about the interior minister , 
it was a comedy , 
the interior minister in england , with the permanent secretary , and bureaucracy and all that . 
i 've seen it several times . 
it 's a scream , 
but i have to go to bed , 
i have to get up and work the next morning . 
that 's why i say , did you stay up late to watch this red dwarf . 
it came on after doctor who , on saturday nights , here at least . 
i do n't think they should show it during prime time , 
but still , it was funny . 
i know . 
i 'm not much of a television watcher . 
i read as i said quite a bit . 
i read about two or three novels a week , in addition to all the technical stuff . 
what do you do ? 
what kind of work do you do ? 
i 'm a payroll clerk . 
just an accounting clerk . 
at t i ? 
i have a friend who works for t i 
i see . 
i 'm from dallas . 
the last two people who have called , both worked for t i 
and i just wondered . 
it could be t i -ers probably are participating more than anybody else , 
but i needed the money . 
this is five bucks here . 
do you work for t i ? 
i work for g t e . in maryland , 
we 're not even supposed to be talking about this though , are we ? 
i guess not . 
how did i hear about it ? 
they are gathering a data base for voice processing . 
and , that 's my field of work also . 
so i know the people at t i who are doing this 
and i heard about it , 
so i called them and asked if i could participate . and send in the forms et cetera and so forth . 
we could go back to television shows . 
speaking of public tv , have you caught any of this series on the bible ? 
i have . 
i 've heard that it 's coming out with the idea that the bible 's not true . 
you could interpret it that way . 
for example . in greek there are seven different words for love . 
there 's one word for love of your brother , one word for love of your wife , one word for love of your father , and that sort of thing . 
so , those types of interpretations really made a difference in how one might interpret the bible now , and what it 's at . 
you can look at it as though they are saying it 's not true , 
but there 's too much historical fact involved just from the histories that were developed around that time , that are available . to deny that , at least the majority of it is true . 
so it depends on how you look at it . 
if you want to say that it 's proven that it is n't true , then you can very much look at it that way . 
you can interpret the t v show , in the same way that you can interpret the bible . 
but as far as that goes , we at least agree on what we enjoy . 
that 's right . 
but i do n't know if there is a time limit on this , 
surely we 've made it . 
i think so too . 
it 's been very pleasant talking to you , 
it was very nice talking to you . 
and have a good evening . 
you too . 
how is it appropriate to be talking about exercise attitudes ? . 
my husband is right now teaching an aerobics class . 
he 's an aerobics instructor . and is going to be entering north texas for a kinesiology program there . 
how i met him was through the aerobics class that he used to teach . 
you 're a student ? 
so . i 'm an avid aerobics person and just very , very athletic . 
enjoying anything dealing with sports . 
and how do you feel about it ? . 
i am a person who wishes i had more time to exercise . 
i do n't very often do things for the sake of exercise . 
i do n't feel well unless i am exercising 
and i try to do things that involve exercise , 
this is my exercise time 
but , i do lots of outdoor sports and things , bicycling mountaineering , a little mountaineering , this and that , 
and i spend a lot of time 
and i probably get more exercise than your average person . 
but , it 's not a structured sort of thing , 
and i have to admit i have a certain resistance to the idea of exercising for exercising 's sake , 
and perhaps , it 's because somehow that implies to me it 's not fun , or something like that . 
that 's the way my mother stands on it . 
she feels like if it 's something that you have to do if you look at it as if you have to do it , then it becomes a chore , 
and , she does n't enjoy it when it 's a chore . 
and i feel that way too as far as the idea of doing fifty sit-ups or something , 
calculated down 
and do your calisthenics three times a week 
i do try and regulate how much exercise i get a week . 
is that why you like aerobics classes , because someone else is doing the counting for you , so , it makes it less of a chore ? 
and i 've always enjoyed dance . 
i ca n't get out to dance all the time 
would that we could . 
and it 's more regulated , 
i mean you 're using different parts of the body . 
so , it is like dance , 
and it 's structured like that , 
like you said , someone else is counting , 
so , it makes it easier for me . 
and , someone else is telling me , let 's move this way , let 's move that way , instead of me having to think about it so much . 
you can just trust someone else to give you full exercise 
and all you do is follow along and enjoy yourself . 
but , i 'm like you , 
we just went to the myererson symphony run this past weekend , 
and that was a lot of fun 
and you get to meet different people , and just get out out and about , 
we did it as a family , 
so , it was quite a lot of fun . 
and i love to swim , 
so i love it when it 's swimming weather , 
you 're talking to someone from california where it 's often swimming weather . 
i did n't realize that . 
i 'm sorry . 
i 'm in texas . 
this is the first call i 've done , 
and , i did n't realize that they were going to reach out to people from , all over the country . 
you would n't know that . 
it 's interesting , because there are real regional differences . 
in california there 's almost an assumption unless you 're , sort of , clearly of an older generation , or something in your sixties , or something like that , 
there 's an assumption that you do something for your physical fitness , at least in urban california . 
i do n't know about rural california too well . 
for all i know aerobics started out here . 
i do n't know where they actually started , 
but the craze really picked up big here 
and before that there was the running craze . 
california tends to be a bit faddish , 
but , the remarkable thing is how well the fads catch on elsewhere . 
so , there must be something to some of them . 
people from california seem to be more health motivated all around as far as . the diet and just your health consciousness , 
and it just , seems like a lot of those ideas generate out of california . 
not just exercise , but , health related ideas . 
there 's a sense of it being a package , 
you 'll get organizations , like institutes for the whole health , or whatever . 
and the university of california at berkeley puts out the wellness letter . which turned into a fairly well subscribed to newsletter , monthly or biweekly newsletter or something like that 
and , it does n't deal with just exercise , or just stress management , or just diet , or anything . 
it 's on fairly solid scientific ground . 
it 's just dispensed with these distinctions . 
it says all sorts of factors go into health and there 's no reason to talk about one rather than another , so that they combined them all together . 
so it 's had that orientation for quite some time . 
there 's been some progressive medical schools out here , that have taken that approach . 
do you think that 's because they 've realized that for whole health , that , you have to have that combination , or that people are motivated that way so that they 've incorporated that into their program . 
i can say there 's a correlation , 
but i could n't say which caused the other . 
each developed a little bit and then would feed off one another and develop a little bit more , and a little bit more . 
the more money they put into it . 
i can see that . 
from institutes of learning like that , i know that they 've got to get their money somewhere , 
and somebody 's got to be willing to pay for it , and believe in it , 
exactly . 
and , part of it is california back in the sixties , had a lot of alternative movements 
and some of them fizzled out 
and some of them were disastrous 
and others of them had an impact on the society around here . 
and one of the ones that had an impact was people becoming interested in alternate practices , 
i 'm not sure if it was a meditation practice , or if it was similar to a stress management practice or alternates to a m a approved medicine . 
you have major acupuncture schools and things out here . 
and you could have them around long enough 
and more and more people start believing them or wondering how to combine them with other things , 
and , before long , you get this whole kind of gestalt , this whole package of health care and options 
and exercise is strongly considered one of them . 
the irony is it 's people in the cities that are most oriented towards doing the exercise . 
and , i guess because they spend all day in back of their desks . 
or they 're older . 
pardon me . 
i sometimes think that it 's almost frantic effort on the part of the people in the city . 
like everything else . 
i live in a rural area , 
so i see that . 
the rat race to exercise . 
it 's frantic , to , achieve , something that a person in a rural area almost does n't worry about it to such a degree , but stays almost healthier , 
i think so . 
as a fit person . 
i know a little bit about people who were considered very healthy in china 
and they do n't do very much vigorous exercise at all . 
but , they do a lot of low keyed , low impact , low stress exercise , 
and they combine it with a meditation or whatever . some sort of relaxation 
they do n't have the hard body . 
they do n't have that perfect look , 
and an awful lot of exercise is sort of image conscious . 
but they live to a hundred and ten some , 
do n't you think a lot of that is diet too ? 
and , a lot of that is diet . 
that 's true . 
they eat a lot of carbohydrates , and not much fat . for economical reasons , not for preference . 
i 'm a practicing vegetarian 
so i 've read a lot of information , knowing that to be true , 
what 's that ? 
as am i . 
are you also , 
it is in the urban areas , 
in the urban areas ? 
for example most restaurants in an urban area will have a little vegetarian section now . 
that 's wonderful . 
most , sort of modern looking restaurants will , 
that 's great , 
it 's such a trouble here . 
you just have to eat at home basically . 
i was wondering that , 
because i was actually applying for a job in texas , 
and , it occurred to me , 
we live close to dallas , 
you get an influx of a lot of people from all over the country , 
so , you 're going to have more choices , 
but , in urban areas it 's steak places , 
it 's changing to a degree , 
but it 's very frustrating . and , even with health food stores and stores where you can buy natural products or organic materials , and foods and things . 
you do n't really have that , 
you would think . 
i think the topic was crime in the city . 
i do not live in a city . 
i live in a real small little place . 
where is that ? 
it 's about thirty miles from sherman . 
north , south , east , or west ? 
it 's north of sherman . 
you live almost in oklahoma . 
not too far . 
that 's kind of ironic , because i do n't live too far from oklahoma either . 
you know where saint joe is ? 
i 've been through there . 
i 'm about eight miles south of it . 
i had been through saint joe , 
but just as far as watching the news and reading the papers and all that , it sounds like the crimes in the cities are really getting bad . 
i 've seen those statistics and everything , 
and you know , what frightens me , is that , you put a half a million people out in the middle of the desert with high tech weaponry , 
the iraqis did n't have a lot of high-tech weaponry , 
but they had mortars and machine guns , tanks and all that . 
and , they did n't kill as many people in forty-five days , 
and they were intending to kill people , 
that was their job , as they killed in washington d c . 
i know , 
i know . 
i know . 
murder is nothing to them . 
i formulated a pretty radical theory over the last ten years , i guess . 
and , i 've come to the conclusion even , that if a guy is convicted , or a gal is convicted , of a crime , rather than put them in prison , because prison 's proven not to work , just let them go . 
say you 're convicted 
and just let them go 
and if they get convicted again just kill them . 
i think that the best hope to eliminate crime , as we know it today is to eliminate the criminals from society . 
if someone is known to have been in prison , they ca n't get a job . 
you know . 
they ca n't be accepted into society . 
if they 're not going to be accepted into society , then everybody 's going to become sociopathic . 
and who 's to put the limit on it ? 
i was watching a thing last night , up in washington state . 
if you get convicted of sexual offenses , on a regular basis . 
some of these guys are forty years old and got ten convictions . 
and they 're still let out on the street after one or two years . 
in washington state , if you 're a habitual sexual offender , they just do n't let you out . 
so you serve your prison term , 
and then you go into the mental hospital , 
and if you 're pronounced cured , they 'll let you go . 
they may find a cure for it , 
but there is no known cure now . 
in other words , if you do something the first time , that 's not real bad , 
people make mistakes . 
to go ahead and let them go , 
use that 
or there 's other consequences rather than killing them , 
you could , always make them the slave of the people they committed the crime against . 
at least they might get some benefit in that , 
and if the people they committed a crime against , feel , at some later date , that these people have learned their lesson , are okay they can free them . 
but with the technology we have today , you can put a collar on a guy 's leg that will knock him down if they leave the property . 
it will just incapacitate them . 
and , you can put a collar around a guy 's leg that will prohibit them from committing any kind of prohibitive act . 
but putting them in prison that does n't work . 
apparently not , 
because look how many years they 've been doing that 
. 
you look at places like turkey . 
turkey has the death penalty , for just about everything . 
if you get convicted of drug trafficking , they just kill you . 
you get convicted of heinous crimes , they just kill you . 
there 's no two ways about it . 
and you look at their society 
and the repeat offenders are very few . 
and you look at our society , almost everyone out on the street that has been in prison , has been in prison three or four times . 
three or four times , 
the way to stop that kind of behavior is two-fold . 
that is true , 
i know . 
one , you need to make it illegal for both parents to work while the kids are under seven . 
i think that 's very important . 
i agree very much so on that , 
and then , if a parent has proved to be unfit , for any reason take the kids away from the parents . 
because we are what we teach . 
because that 's what our society becomes . 
we have just a bunch of people , 
i 've lived in that environment for quite a few years when i was doing construction work . 
and these guys , they come to work every morning 
and they 're stoned to the bone . 
they 're so high , they could fly up to the top of that building 
and they work all day , 
and they go home 
and they smoke their dope and drink their booze and shoot their drugs 
and when they run out of money , they go down to the corner store and pop the guy on the head and take his money , 
and then they go back to work on monday . 
sure , 
they just think that 's the normal thing to do , do n't they ... 
they 're sociopathic . 
and i worked in a first grade classroom for one full semester 
and these kids were more foulmouthed than i 've ever been . 
i had one kid threaten my life . 
in the first grade . 
told me that daddy 's going to whoop me to death . 
and they flipping me the finger and all that 
and i just said to this kid , 
i said , you got two choices kid , 
you can step into mainstream society 
or you can die . 
because you will eventually be killed . 
and , i 'm just totally aghast at what 's going on . 
i know . 
i know , 
i work in school , 
that 's something i do 
i 'm like you 
astonishing what the younger ages know , 
and they react to what they see at home . 
if they see violence at home , that 's what you 're going to get from the kids at school . 
it really is , 
and that 's kind of sad . 
you can see it in the work place . 
used to be when you had a personality conflict you worked with it 
and you got through it . 
now people get fired , 
or what 's even worse , is they promote them into a position that they ca n't handle and let them get fired . 
or , one thing or the other . 
you look at another kind of society like the japanese . 
you put that many people on that small of a space , they 've learned to live together . 
it 's in their culture . 
and one of the things that 's in their culture that i really think the major corporations should pay attention to , is the fact that , while japan was becoming a great power , financially , the people that worked for those companies , worked for the same company they worked for at sixty-five , as they did when they were eighteen . 
teen . 
and the company , took it upon itself to find a position for these people . 
if they were n't fit for the job they were hired for , they did n't just can them , 
they made a position for them some where . 
you look at frito lay . 
my wife used to work for frito lay as a typist . 
transcribing stuff into the computer . 
she could type about one-hundred and five words per minute , 
but she do n't like it . 
she just does n't like to do that . 
what kind of hobbies do you have ? 
i do a lot of cross-stitching and painting , when i do have spare time . 
i like cross-stitch too . 
i love it . 
i just have a hard time finding any spare time lately . 
that 's my case also . 
i 've got a new born 
and there 's just no time . 
have you been cross-stitching long ? 
several years . 
my husband is even interested in it now . 
he likes to help me design projects that are , a little more customized . 
he looks at the pattern 
and he says how do you get that from there to the material . 
not that hard . 
it 's not . 
i really enjoy it . 
and once you get started on it , i love it . 
i do a lot of my own patterns also . 
in fact , i did one , bill the cat from glenn county that was a real good one to do . 
it was tough , 
but . 
do you have any others , 
or is this mainly cross-stitching ? 
i do mostly that , 
not very artistic really for painting and stuff . 
but i do n't know . 
i 'm still trying to get all the d m c colors . 
i 've got the kits to put them all in . 
i do n't have them all yet certainly . 
i got to counting the other day 
and i think i have two hundred , 
it can add up quick . 
i just keep an inventory of what i currently have , 
just buy the colors that i need of what i 'm low on . 
i see . 
now can i improvise with adding and using another color instead what comes close . because a lot of them are similar . 
a lot of times you can do that . 
the pinks , there 's forty-two different shades of pink . 
there 's lots of pinks and greens . 
pinks and greens . 
there 's lots of shades of greens . 
i just love all the different colors . 
they had quite a few new ones come out last year , that they added to . 
but , you do n't have much spare time either ? 
not lately . 
i just started a new job 
and trying to get acclimated there . 
and that does take some time . 
and if we 're trying to get acclimated with having a baby , 
how old ? 
he 's seven months old . 
and just into everything , 
so there 's not a spare moment . 
but i would n't trade it for the world . 
i 've been trying to do some bibs for him . and work on his christmas stocking . 
we missed it last year , 
so hopefully this year he 'll have one . 
last year he was a little bit young for having one . 
he would n't have enjoyed it anyway . 
you would have 
if it tasted good . 
all he liked was the lights this year , 
that 's neat that you like cross-stitching also . 
that 's kind of strange that we got the same call . 
it 's a mumblex call . 
i 'm sorry . 
go ahead . 
that 's okay . 
but 
i 've been doing it for probably ten years or so . 
i just started about five years ago , i think . 
but it is peaceful , 
it is relaxing to do , once you find the time to do it . 
there 's also a couple of large projects , baby afghans , 
and i got one done 
and i think the child is going to be in high school before i get finished . 
bear thing . 
is it one of those afghans that i 've seen in the packages with the large squares ? 
i bought the cloth and the pattern for it . 
i did n't buy a kit . 
i 've seen the afghans in the stores that are designed for cross-stitching . 
it 's that cloth . 
it 's cloth i think . 
and it has the borders and everything already . 
those are pretty . 
number one turned out just great , 
and the lady said she could n't believe that they know that i had done it in the colors , that they had decorated the nursery 
and i did n't even know it . 
i gave it to her 
and she said how did you know those are the colors we used . 
i said did n't . 
it worked out that way . 
that 's great . 
now i 've got the material to do an afghan that i just never did get around to finishing it . 
i like those . 
those are pretty . 
lilly , she said it 's for your daughter to use . 
she said , i know she does n't get to touch it . 
she hung it on the wall . 
my grandmother made us a couple of quilts for the baby , 
and i was i do n't want to mess those up . 
they 're just too nice . 
you do n't get many hand made quilts anymore . 
i 've enjoyed this . 
keep up the cross-stitching . 
you too . 
the topic is to discuss the sources where i receive news . 
and for me that 's mostly newspaper and radio , 
i almost never watch television , as a matter of course 
so , i do n't get news from television , 
except during the war , i watched a lot of c n n because it was so good . 
of course i think , saddam hussein only allowed c n n to broadcast it , 
is that not true ? 
it was unusual not to have the different sources of news coverage . 
i do n't know . 
i guess i do n't even know why i watched c n n . 
i guess , i just wanted more news . 
what 's the other one , 
c b s . 
c b s . 
they all were tapped into c n n . 
were they ? 
that 's the only thing they broadcast 
and like you i listened to radio on my job at work . 
i listen to a christian radio station . 
and they were saying that c n n is definitely a world news service 
you ca n't really be sure of the quality of what you 've got . 
we had some people from our church went to israel just for a tour sort of thing . 
and i was watching on tv 
they broadcast this terrible riot supposedly that was going on in jerusalem , 
so we got all fearful for our people , 
come to find out they came back and said they were n't even aware of it , 
and so it really made me question as to how do we know if the news we 're getting is any good . 
i guess , the news just focuses on major events that probably , do n't affect ninety-nine percent of the people who are right there when the news is being made . 
but i 'm from california 
and i can remember being in these earthquakes 
and they were very minor kinds of things from my point of view , and from anyone else 's point of view , 
but they get all blown up in the news . , 
specially tv , 
local news concentrates , on murders and things like that . 
i 'm from dallas 
and we have a lot of bad stuff , 
it just really gets me depressed , even to watch it . 
so then , you wake up one morning 
and you are in war with somebody 
you do n't even know about it . 
what newspapers do you read in dallas ? 
we have the dallas times herald and the dallas morning news , 
but i do n't read newspapers . 
do n't you ? 
how come ? 
i find it hard to follow from one page to another . 
it 's just something i have never developed an interest in . 
and i live in kind of a bad area where if i have the paper delivered it 's stolen before i can get out and get it . 
that sounds pretty bad to me . 
who would steal a newspaper ? 
you would be surprised . 
they just come by and pick them up even if it 's just for the tv selections of the day . 
i see . 
i do n't know . 
it just would n't be there whenever i tried it . 
you 're right , 
who would steal a newspaper ? 
but , they do . 
what part of california are you from ? 
from los angeles , 
but i live in raleigh , north carolina , right now , 
that 's where i am speaking to you from . 
but , i grew up in l a . 
i work out here . 
you work for t i ? 
i do n't . 
i work for north carolina state university . 
but i know some people at t i , 
and i have a couple of students who have graduated and gone to work for them . 
i 'm in the computer business . 
current events is not a good subject for me . 
i do n't keep up with it that often . 
let 's see , 
i 've never done this before , 
this is your first call ? 
this is my first call . because i just got my password . 
so i do n't know , 
it seems to me it says you are suppose to talk for three minutes , 
but i think we 've been talking for three minutes 
and nobody has interrupted . 
i got into a conversation last night with a lady 
and they interrupt at ten , minutes . 
i see . 
so if we 've done our three minutes . let 's just let the conversation end and say bye . 
nice talking to you . 
nice talking to you too . 
how you doing ? 
not bad , 
not bad . 
what 's your name ? 
fernando . 
fernando . 
my name is nick . 
wait . 
let me turn off my stereo here . 
because i 've been waiting for about ten minutes to get connected to somebody . 
are you in dallas ? 
i 'm in detroit . 
or not detroit . 
i 'm in california . 
are you ? 
because every time i got through , i went to dallas , texas . 
i 'm in north carolina . 
let 's see , 
on the other coast . 
twenty-one . 
it 's midnight almost ? 
what ? 
i 'm watching saturday night live here . 
i guess we 're supposed to talk , 
what about 
credit card ? 
wait . 
how did you get to know about the t i thing ? 
one of my instructors said that they were doing something like this 
what are you working on ? 
a masters in information systems . 
i 'm doing my masters in computer science and computer engineering . 
where at ? 
at north carolina state university . 
how do you like it out there ? 
i do n't . because i come from a bigger city than this one 
and i 'm in raleigh 
raleigh durham . 
that area . 
and it 's really small . 
all you have is towns built around universities . 
like chapel hill ? 
so it 's basically a bunch of small towns anyway . 
kind of quaint little towns 
but they do n't have a whole lot there . 
where you at ? 
i 'm in monterey , california right now . 
it 's like this town probably has two hundred and fifty thousand people 
and that 's about it . 
two hundred fifty ? 
it 's a lot bigger than monterey is . 
but we 're just south of san jose and san francisco . 
and it 's only a hour away to a large city . 
where do you go ? 
do you go to berkeley ? 
it 's the naval postgraduate school out here . 
because i was looking at the , doctorate degree in computer science center at berkeley . 
and they 're asking for a g p a of three point seven or something like that . 
and they 're looking for g r e like ninety-nine percentile and this and that . 
that 's what they look for . 
whether or not they get it is hard to say . 
i know . 
that 's why i did n't apply . 
for me , it was practically impossible to get between ninety and , ninety-nine percentile on the verbal part . 
it 's pretty tough . 
it 's pretty tough . 
let 's face it . 
the school only takes you so far . 
it 's what you do . 
so i do n't lose any sleep over stuff like that . 
are you going to go for your doctorate ? 
probably not . 
i 'm in the navy . 
if i do do it , it will be after i get out of the navy . 
when do you get out ? 
probably be another twelve years . 
i like what i 'm doing right now . 
but what if they pay for it ? 
excuse me ? 
if they pay for a p h d ? 
they wo n't pay for it . 
i think they have maybe two people a year go , get their p h d . 
because i know a couple of people here that work for the army . 
they civilians or military ? 
i think they 're military . 
and he works over in maryland . 
and so he 's doing his masters here . 
they gave him a scholarship for a year . 
and he 's doing it in a year and a summer . 
and so he 's getting that 
and they said they got a lot of benefits and that . 
that 's why you want to join . 
you can earn a lot more money 
i go why you still there if you can earn a lot more money , once you 've get your masters . 
they go , they got a lot of benefits that would go with it 
so . 
a lot of times it 's not the money that keeps people in . 
they like what they 're doing . 
they feel good about what they 're doing . 
that type of thing . 
once you get your masters , you can be earning anywhere between thirty-seven , forty-five thousand a year . 
and that 's not what they 're paying . 
easily , 
i 'm sure . 
it depends on what rank you are , of course . 
i know . 
like i say , if you 're at an upper level in the rank category you 're probably pulling down close to seventy grand a year . 
those are few and far between though . 
it 's in i b m . 
in i b m , you can get certain points 
and everyone 's a manager . 
but nobody can get one more point to become whatever you need to earn so much money . 
since i imagine it 's fairly competitive . 
all the major companies get into a boating race , 
and so , i b m says we have to have a team , 
and then they come in last 
and they have this whole team analyze why they came in last 
because the person asked for it . 
he goes , the problem was that there were five people saying row , row , row and one person rowing , 
so he goes have you come up with a solution ? 
they go , yeah , 
change the rower . 
it 's like everyone 's a , manager 
but it 's like one person does the work 
too many chiefs and not enough indians . 
i do n't know , 
that can really slow you down . 
that 's the way it works . 
that 's why they 're having problems . 
everyone 's a manager 
i did n't realize that . 
it 's like the people that actually do the work there are very few . 
and then the other people just plan it . 
push paper around . 
all these people are just sitting around , just going what shall we do ? 
has anybody thought of anything ? 
and then this guy from federal express comes along . 
they go what 's that ? 
this track which it 's going around the world 
and they can tell you where your package is anywhere , any time . 
and so it 's the same thing with i b m , 
so they have this think tank . 
and they got to come up with ideas . 
but the thing is , that i b m is so stabilized that everybody will buy their stuff . 
they 've got basically a lock on a lot of the market . 
people generally go with that because they figure that you probably wo n't get fired for getting i b m material . 
whereas if you try something different , they 'll say yeah , 
and it fails 
and you 're dead . 
why did n't you try something more mainline . 
i b m does n't fire anybody . because what they do is they put you in a different job . which you actually are sitting around not doing anything . 
so you quit . 
that 's their policy . 
they never fire anybody unless you 're caught doing something illegally . 
illegal or something like that , 
if you 're stealing something or doing anything like that . 
but they wo n't let you off . 
suppose you 're a manager . 
so they 'll put you into keeping up the paper . 
it 's how much paper is going in ? 
and then you say that 's not my job , 
so you quit . 
so , in other words , that 's the way they force people out . 
that 's why they can say there 's no layoff policy . 
but they do n't really say that , 
you 're always going to have great career conditions . 
that 's kind of sad . 
but it 's like they have just different policy . 
i do n't know . 
my dad works for them 
but it 's like in their commercials , they never put down any other company . 
they 're the standard right now . 
or as far as that goes people think of computers , they think of i b m a lot of times . 
because what happens is they have a good backup policy . 
and anybody can fix it . 
and so that 's what you 're going to go for . 
that 's a big thing . 
and it 's for example , like leading edge . 
have you ever heard of leading edge ? 
they are out of korea . 
what ? 
leading edge . 
they made small personal computers . 
small p c -s . 
they 're out of korea 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know . 
but what they did is buy all the parts that i b m would throw away . and build an i b m p c with all the parts that i b m would throw away . 
for example , you test a chip . 
it ca n't last seven years 
but it can last five . 
i b m says let 's throw it away . 
leading edge will say we 'll buy it from you . 
they 're still around i think . 
i 've seen them around anyway . 
so , that 's what they do . 
they buy all the things that i b m throws away 
and by the time you have computer for five years , you 're going to throw it away anyway . 
most people do . 
or they have to anyway . 
it 's voice synthesizing stuff . 
and he got that . 
i was testing it 
and it was wonderful . 
and then when you tried to erase and correct all the errors in your voice , it takes up all your memory . 
and i want more . 
and it 's jesus christ , 
it 's why do you want more . 
because it 's one second of recording . 
you put into wave 
and you want to correct the errors into wave , 
it takes so much , 
of course it does . 
and you put it in there , 
and you want to correct those . 
and then you 're trying to make the wave smooth 
of course it 's going to take a lot . 
imagine what it is for us to make mark off models . 
it 's amazing . 
it 's jesus christ . 
when you get right down to it the more they can do for you , the more memory they 're going to require . 
both in terms in ram as well as standard memory or disk base , 
like they say nobody can get enough . 
you find out more , 
i was watching this program on t v yesterday . 
in nineteen seventy-six nasa came up with three d graphics . 
what ? 
like a hologram ? 
this is like video game stuff . 
but the only thing was , that it was just lines , 
what do you think in terms of benefits ? 
of course i 'm sure we 're familiar with the exact same benefit package 
and i think that we 've probably got one of the best around , 
besides , they tend to offer adequate vacation , i guess . 
and the paid time off is wonderful , 
and one of the things that we were just talking about as a matter of fact this week at work was the coda plan that is offered 
and i think that is just a fabulous one , 
so . i do n't know if you participate in that or not , 
is n't it great ? 
it 's just a miracle how fast that adds up . 
i have to agree with that . 
i was thinking about importance of benefits and that kind of thing , other than salary while i was waiting for the system to find a respondent . 
and i started thinking that over the years that importance has changed 
and i suspect that that 's probably true for everyone . 
when i was much younger it was less important to consider retirement and less important to consider medical benefits . 
but as i grow older and my family grows , the medical benefits are more important 
and the retirement is more important . 
i had never really thought of it that way 
but i guess that 's true , 
i guess that 's true . 
i 'm still young enough that , the vacation 's real important to me 
and the paid time off is real important to me and that kind of thing . 
but as a matter of fact , i just , celebrated my fifth year at t i the end of last month and kind of started looking through the book because of that , 
now that i 'm a hundred percent vested you kind of look through the book and see what does that mean and what is the pension all about 
i 'm only in my late twenties now , 
so you tend not to think about retirement . 
i guess now is the time to think about it , 
so . does t i have a pretty good retirement package ? 
i think they have one that we need to recognize that we 're going to have to supplement ourselves . 
and that 's certainly one of the reasons that they 've begun the coda plan . 
it 's certainly a supplemental way , 
and i suppose maybe in your instance , if you 're started with t i in your early to mid-twenties , and happen to stay with them until you 're sixty-five , then you 'll have a very good retirement plan . 
but i had another career first and then came to t i a little later . 
all by itself it wo n't be adequate for my situation . 
it 's not going to build up , quite enough , 
so , i have to find a way to supplement that . 
they seem to make it so easy to save . 
but i 've got money coming out to buy savings bonds , just coming straight out of my check . 
and it 's probably not a great investment , 
but if i was n't doing that the money would n't be being saved anyway . 
i kind of have to trade off . 
if you never see it you do n't spend it , 
i understand though , 
believe me , 
i do that myself . 
do you ? 
and i disagree with you . 
i do n't think it 's the worst investment , in the world . 
do you really not ? 
i debate about whether it 's really good or not . 
and maybe you do n't start looking for that word guaranteed , until later . 
it 's shown a history that sure beats anything else . over many , many years . 
that 's true . 
that 's very true . 
we went and did a thing through i b s which is a financial consultant type thing here in dallas 
they work up this whole big profile for you , all the things that you need to work on and you need to do . 
and then one of the things that we talked about with her was the need to save for our son 's education . 
we have a two year old , 
and we ca n't start saving for college when he 's sixteen , 
we have to do that now . 
and he 's two now , 
in sixteen years when he 's ready to go to college , this is how much it 'll cost , 
what it costs now is ridiculous , 
what it 's going to cost sixteen years from now is just really scary . 
and they sat down and figured up that we needed to save between fifteen and seventeen hundred dollars a year at a six percent interest rate , to be able to have money for his college . 
and that 's exactly what we have coming out in saving bonds , is about fifteen hundred dollars a year . 
in that way , at least we know that that 's taken care of . 
we can worry about other things 
i understand , that approach . 
that 's exactly what 's happening in my family . 
is it really ? 
except that mine are a little bit older 
and i 've shown them the numbers and said this is what 's going to be available , 
all this is going to do is give you a little spending money while you 're there . 
you better make sure that you 've got a scholarship . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
that 's what she said to us . 
she said , do you all want him to go to a state college or a private college ? 
and our answer was , that we will have enough money available for him to attend a state college . 
and if he wants to go to a private college , he can get a scholarship to attend . 
and that was kind of our view on it . 
it just costs too much , 
you just ca n't do it . 
so , i do n't know , 
it just amazing , 
it amazes me how much the costs are going to go up over the next ten or fifteen years . 
i just do n't know how anybody 's going to do it . 
i know . 
and it gets really scary when you start talking to them . 
i have an eleven year old daughter now who 's saying , dad , i want to be an allergist , 
and i said , that 's wonderful . 
i applaud that . 
let , me explain to you how you get scholarships to do that . 
and , then her little brother 's only two years behind 
and he says , i do n't know , 
i think that i probably want to be a veterinarian . 
and i said , that 's great . 
let me explain to you how you get scholarships , to do that . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
t i offers some good stuff 
and then i think there 's some negatives , 
but there 's going to be some negatives anywhere no matter where you go . 
this is the first really large company i 've worked for . 
i 've always been involved in little small privately owned firms 
and so i 've never had the big benefit package . 
so , i really do n't know how to compare it to other big companies . 
when i came on it was great because i had never had anything even close to what they offered . 
so , i 've been real pleased . 
that 's fantastic , 
and on whole i would say that they 're equal to most of our competitors . 
think so ? 
i can see some potential changes that probably would not cost very much but might make things a little easier . such as offering a smorgasbord . having a larger variety of benefits 
but here 's the amount , that t i is going to pay for it , 
and you can pick what you want 
and . 
now it 's up to you 
it 's menu selection , so , to speak . 
that sounds really good . 
i read a thing , 
and they said that t i was looking into it , to purchase extra vacation days . which i thought sounded like a good idea . 
if you 've been there under five years and you get two weeks of vacation but that 's really not enough and you want an extra week , then you can purchase an extra week of vacation by saying , i 'm going to want an extra five days this year 
and they 'll take a set amount out of each paycheck , 
and they 're deducting it all along , 
so you can have an extra five days off and be paid for them at the time , 
you 're really not being paid for them , 
the money is actually coming out of your own pocket , 
but it 's coming out a little bit at a time instead of all at once . 
so , that is kind of an idea that a lot of people sounded like that they were really interested in 
and t i said that they were looking into something like that 
i could certainly , personally stand seeing them go to a standardized compensatory time for overtime . 
and i do n't believe any of us would have to purchase any extra vacation days , if they did , that . 
and i would certainly support something like four to one or five to one 
or maybe they want to get generous and make it three to one . 
as a repayment for , every three to five days that i work overtime there , they should give me one day . 
but it should be a standard and not left up to either the whim or the current overhead rate that 's running in each department . 
and 
and a lot of that is left up to whoever your supervisor happens to be and what type of relationship you have with that person 
and i see a lot of differences , from one group to the next about who gets it and who does n't get it . 
and that 's that way with a lot of things there . 
it seems like , it depends on what group you happen to be in , what you 're going to get and what you 're not going to get 
that 's for sure . 
which is the same , 
but then it 's probably that way anywhere , 
i 'm sure personalities always come into play . 
the question was what is your opinion of youth spending a year or two in public service . 
i think it would be a great idea . 
i 'm not sure about requiring it of people , because people are going feeling resentful . 
i do n't know , 
but i think it would be a great idea . 
seems like there 's so many kids that do n't have any since of what they want to be or do 
or they could learn something and maybe help other people at the same time 
and all countries sure need help 
my only experience with it , i was in central america for a while , and in san salvador , in el salvador , 
for instance , everybody had what they called there social year , that they had to put in 
and basically it was a repayment for , high school education , 
and most of them joined the red cross 
and it was done internally . 
there was very little external . 
i think possibly what they 're thinking about here , more external peace corps , type things where we 're sending people off shore . 
i think that would be real interesting for people to do , 
but , i guess , my concern about that would be the cost involved trying to train people in a new language and ship them to other countries , 
but , i do n't know . 
i did n't know . 
i do n't know how the peace corps works , 
i , guess i was of age when the peace corps came in , and all that . 
i was too . 
i thought seriously about joining at that time , 
i thought it was a fantastic idea . 
i sent off for stuff on it , 
but i do n't remember that much . about it . 
i know that they trained you in the language 
you actually got paid too , while in the peace corps , 
it was n't much , 
was n't jimmy carter 's mama that was in the peace corps ? 
i think so , 
but it might be interesting to see what would happen if you took then to another country instead of having being exposed to all the drugs and violence and sex and everything here , and take them to some other country that had different moral values , like saudi arabia where they could n't drink . 
where they could n't do that . 
you might end up with a revolution . 
i do n't know which end though . 
that 's been interesting , though , the kids that have been over coming back right now . 
you wonder if being exposed to that for a while , what percentage of them would actually say , that 's not a bad way to do it , 
because from what i understand , from some of the guys i know crime is punishable , just almost instantly and public , 
public hanging . 
public hanging and this sort of thing , 
so you do n't have just a whole lot of , what we consider street crimes . 
i 've heard that in china and stuff , there is virtually no such thing as rape , because if you rape somebody you 'd be murdered on the street 
the public service thing again 
but when you do that then it becomes almost a mumblex , 
or it can be , 
people will kind of set up their own little club , 
that 's true . 
people that might benefit most from it might not go in that situation like people that really are trapped in a ghetto or something like that . 
might not go if it was voluntary , 
but i do n't know how they 'd enforce it , 
if they went awol , what are you going to do . 
shoot them . 
put them in jail . 
i do n't know . 
send them over to iraq . 
have a vacation in iraq for a year . 
and he was a rock rib iowa type republican 
and the only good thing he could ever say about the whole roosevelt administration was civilian conservation corps , 
because he was in it . 
he thought that was great . 
the rest of it was all hog wash , 
but that was great . 
it seems like it would develop pride in people , if , it 's in their own country . 
it would certainly help them to appreciate some of the things that we have here and develop some pride in them , if it was handled that way . 
it would take quite a few people . 
i think it might build jobs for people that were administrating and running and training and coordinating and all that , 
so maybe that part of it would be helpful too . 
i do n't know . 
that brings up the interesting subject too , 
who would determine what these people do . 
c c c was run by the army 
and the only opposition to it really was that it was starting some sort of a military elitist type special corps of cadre of people and that sort of thing . 
really there could be some scandals involved , if it was n't people that were really fair and in a legal way or something , 
they could send all the people over to one particular part of town or one particular project , that somebody had paid somebody to get supported , 
we 've gotten to the point where if the racial make up of the group was such and such they 'd have to do that percentage of work and what is perceived to be that part of town and that kind of thing . 
that could be complicated too , could n't it . 
suppose they had a group who were construction oriented 
and they went 
and they built a swimming pool , or anything , 
and one , you can only build it in one place , 
and know matter where you build it , somebody else is going to scream , you did n't build one over here . 
that 's true . 
unfair or something , 
it 's one of those things on the surface it seems like a great idea . 
it 's like a joke i heard once about elephant foot soup , 
it 's easy to do once you find a elephant foot . 
it 's the logistics of the thing that gets you going . 
it seems like there 's a lot , 
you do n't hear much on the news about young people really wanting to do anything good or anything like that , 
but i 'm sure that there are a lot of young people out there that really do have good hearts and are willing to help and serve and that kind of thing . 
i guess now she 's practically a teenager , 
she started some type of national organization for youth to volunteer to tutor other kids to read and do different service projects like that trying to get youth more directed towards helpful things , 
and i know everyone in the high schools in dallas , 
i think it was in a hispanic area , 
they wanted to start a club for the teenagers , instead of all these gangs kids could join to belong . 
but they did n't have anything positive the kids could be doing , helping , 
so they were trying to start that out , 
so if there 's kids that are willing to sacrifice their time and energy . we ought to use them if they 're willing to do it . 
here you are to the logistics of the thing again . 
who 's going to run it , 
what , 
how , 
like i said at the beginning i 've got so many connections with people in central america . 
my daughter-in-law is panamanian , 
and they have situations like that down there . where they have , the social , in some sort of way , 
if you want to go to school outside the country they 'd go to school in cornell , iowa , of all places , 
and when they came back , they 'd have to serve this year , 
and it turned out to be kind of a joke , 
the ones i knew always chose the red cross , because they did n't do anything 
i see . 
and they had all kinds of things they could go into , agricultural , and really good stuff , 
but unless there was a flood or a fire or something like that , red cross , it was so many of them in it , that your chance of having to do something it was very slim . 
we belong to the church of jesus christ of latter day saints , which is the mormon church . 
and there is men and also women , 
women are n't nearly as frequent , 
and also that have elderly couples once their kids have left , that can volunteer to go on a mission 
and they 're all over the world . 
and , it 's incredible logistics , 
they have a training center where they teach them , 
it 's called the missionary training center in utah , 
and they have , to be taught the language and customs and all those kinds of things , 
young men do it for two years and the young women for eighteen months . 
then that 's kind of a private organization , 
my instructor pilot was a mormon , 
he was a good instructor pilot because he considered himself indestructible , 
he had a direct connection somewhere , 
he felt that he really had an in 
so things he would do with an airplane , 
but any rate that 's off the subject , 
they do n't get paid for it , 
but there is funding that comes , 
they 're supposedly saving up on their own 
and the church helps them out some , 
but , you know , that it is incredible . 
i see how they were organized in , central and south america 
with credit cards me , i try to get maybe just one or two , 
i do n't like having credit cards for every store . 
i just do n't like them . 
what are you afraid of with them ? 
what am i afraid of ? 
i do n't know if i 'm really afraid of spending too much . 
i just do n't think that i need them . 
they are tempting at times , 
but sometimes i just do n't like everybody knowing everything about me , 
that can be very , very true . 
and everybody just gives you a credit card just so you 'll spend money 
that 's the idea . 
they figure that , if they give you card , at no charge for a whole year that you will use it 
that 's right . 
they make money off of it , whether you use it or not . 
the other thing , of course , is the fact that they hope , you will not pay your bill at the end of the month , so that you would be paying interest . 
that 's right . 
i use mine a great deal for groceries , for everything that i can and , then just write one check at the end of the month , for the entire thing , 
that 's what i do . 
that 's what i do . 
just a second . 
that 's all right . 
sounds like you have a little one there . 
i have two little ones . 
you have . 
how old are they ? 
four and two and half . 
. those are two very active ages . 
i 'm like you 
i just use it whenever i feel like i do n't want to write a check , 
but i do n't charge anything that i ca n't payoff at the end of the month . 
do you ever use the a t m machines ? 
i never do . 
my husband does at work just to get cash out , 
but i take the checkbook 
so if i need cash , i just tell him 
and he gets it out 
and i do n't even think i know my number . 
i find it a great use from the standpoint that you do n't have to continue to write checks , in order to get cash . 
that 's right . 
he could n't do without it , since he can just do it right there at work , for nothing . 
that helps . 
the other thing some people are not aware of , is they will use their credit card like their visa or their mastercard for cash 
and when they do that , they begin paying interest right from that very day on . 
you 're right . 
and that 's kind of silly . 
that 's correct . 
you 're defeating the purpose . 
the idea is to use their money . 
and during that whole month and , then pay it at the end of the month . 
i get at least one or two a week . people , sending me a credit card or calling me on the phone 
and i just say i do n't want it . 
i think that 's the only thing you can do , is just say no and mean no and , not be tempted . 
it 's like , i 'd like to know where they determine that i 'm such a good credit risk that they can go and say , you get this much credit line . 
you 've already been preapproved . 
preapproved . 
that 's their favorite word . 
everybody in the country is preapproved , i think . 
i think so , 
you 're right . 
it 's interesting that people have generally the same view . of credit cards , no matter where you go . 
and , then , some people they get so wrapped up in them that one day they find , i did n't realize i 'd spent this much money . 
that much stuff . 
and , then they ca n't meet the minimum monthly payments on it . 
and some people use one credit card to pay for another credit card they own , 
and that does nothing , but exacerbate the entire problem . 
it does because you 're just costing yourself more money because if you ca n't make the monthly , minimum payment , you 're paying interest , again 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
it 's been enjoyable talking with you . 
it 's enjoyable seeing that somebody feels the same way , 
take good care . 
take care of your little ones . 
you too . 
good luck . 
i 'll just hand it off to you 
and hobbies in our spare time is what we 've been selected to discuss today . 
the hobbies that i pursue in my spare time , are crafts 
and i 've been involved in making hat stands and rag dolls and different type hats with flowers and roses and that kind of thing , straw hats and , all that kind of stuff . 
and i enjoy it , 
it 's relaxing . 
and you kind of get absorbed in it 
so the time goes by before you realize anything is going on . 
and i play the organ sometimes just for my own satisfaction . not for anybody else 's ears 
because i 'm not that good at it , 
but i like to bang on the keyboards once in a while . 
how about yourself ? 
hobbies 
i guess i got too many hobbies 
so i never have time to deal with them . 
i like photography a lot , 
that 's neat . 
i used to do that a lot 
we have a new child that will be a year old here next week , 
so i 'll take a lot of pictures of her and spoil them , 
that 's great , 
first one , you know how that is . 
and i play the guitar and a banjo . 
i mainly play the guitar a lot , 
i play about every night . 
and i really love that , 
if i had a druther , 
if i could make it on the road , i 'd like to play on a bluegrass band or something , 
that sounds nice . 
i like bluegrass , too . 
i 've done it before when i was in high school and college , and thoroughly enjoyed it , 
and it 's really a blast . 
my wife hates it , 
but that 's the way life is , i guess . 
that 's the hard part ? 
if you can do things together , that really helps a lot . 
she 's into aerobics , 
and we did aerobics together for about a month and a half 
that 's good , too . 
and that went over real well , 
but that 's about it there . 
it 's good 
and it 's healthy , too . 
we do that too , 
we have a treadmill and a bicycle and that kind of stuff , 
we try to get twenty minutes at least three for four times a week . 
that 's great . 
that 's great . 
and we like movies , 
spare time , 
we 're looking for a baby-sitter 
so we 've been out twice in this year so far . by ourselves without the child 
so it 's kind of become an issue you could say . 
hobbies , 
i like , messing around in your house building things , and putting cabinets up , and , those kind of things , 
that 's great , too . 
we did some remodeling when we bought a house , 
we put a kitchen in and that kind of stuff , 
and painting and some wallpapering , 
that 's fun . 
it 's really kind of fun . 
it is . 
it really is . 
especially if your spouse will get in there with you and get dirty , 
exactly . 
i like things that two people can do , 
but i like the quiet of doing things away , 
kind of gives you some space for yourself , 
and that 's what i find in making the dolls and things , that it gives me something that i can create , 
and i like to crochet and knit . 
i made some afghans and that kind of stuff . 
i like doing things with my hands . 
sounds like it . 
do you like to cook ? 
i love to cook . 
i love to cook , too , 
italian food . 
pizzas and spaghettis and lasagnas and that kind of stuff . 
we 're all skinny farts 
amount of people eat , and then say , this is really good , 
it is . 
work in the garden , work around the yard , of course , 
do you do barbecues ? 
we sure do , 
smoke them , 
smoking and all that stuff ? 
all that hoedown stuff . 
all that stuff that 's bad for you . 
i lived in abilene for a little while , and worked in the abilene plant , 
and we used to go to joe allen 's barbecue , 
and that was great . 
really great , 
that 's only way to do it . 
they have some nice stuff down there . 
i miss it . 
there 's pluses to everything , 
but seems like there 's just so many things to do down here , 
i like the sports , 
i play a lot of racquetball . 
i did horseback riding , too , 
in fact , when my children were growing up , we always had horses 
and that was kind of for them , 
but they were n't as interested in it as we were , 
i 'd say probably for maybe fifteen years , we dabbled in that , 
we always had horses around , 
and i really enjoyed that , 
that 's great , 
and i was disappointed when i went to texas . 
i did n't see that many of them . 
horses ? 
you really do n't . 
you have to look real hard to see a lot of things besides concrete , 
i know , 
i know , 
it 's true . 
there 's buildings and concrete and a lot of people 
and that 's about it down here , 
but that 's great . 
sounds like you have a lot of nice hobbies there . 
you too , 
you too . 
look , 
i know it 's probably late for you , 
i enjoyed speaking with you 
me too . 
have a good weekend . 
i do n't know , 
which end do we push 
but 
let 's see , 
i think there 's a lot of people that do n't vote because they do n't really think their , opinion is going to be heard 
and there 's such a small voice and such a huge number of people in the united states 
their , vote 's not going to make that much difference 
and whether you vote for one person or the other person , the issues is what you believe in , 
since there 's so many issues , this one person can believe a lot of different ways on , all of them 
so , it would be really difficult to have that one perfect person that believed exactly what you believed . 
that 's true , 
i think that it ends up the people that vote every time elections come around are more the party type followers , the guys that follow the party lines , 
and , they just go in 
and if they 're republican they vote republican every year , 
and the people that are independent are the ones that do n't really show up every year because they ca n't seem to decide which are the good aspects and which are the bad aspects of a candidate . 
that 's good . 
back when anderson was running , i was hoping that things would change and he 'd actually get elected and party politics would start going down the tubes , 
but that did n't work . 
there 's a lot of extremes on the parties , too , with the real far side of the democrats 
they 're real liberal now to where probably fifty or a hundred years ago the democrat party being liberal like they are now would never be thought of , 
it would be the other way that the republicans were real liberal minded as far as moral standings and those kinds of things . 
and then people always get upset about it , too , because every year the politicians are the ones that are usually pushing for more people to vote , 
they each think that if more people vote , they 'll get more votes ? 
i 'm always amazed that each candidate thinks it 's going to be the people that come out that will vote for him . 
that 's true . 
i think in the texas governor elections more people turned out to vote against somebody than for somebody , this time . 
i know that there 's certain issues that can really motivate people because we live in a predominately catholic type area , 
this particular community is a catholic community 
but down in d c where things are a little bit different it 's women 's rights and that sort of movement , 
and so it 's quite the opposite , 
the elections where they have that topic seem to be a little bit better attended than some of the other ones . 
that 's true . 
that 's true that the different places in america that different issues would be a lot more important than in another place . 
i can understand why some of the rural areas , the voter turnout is n't as much because it does seem sometimes like the lobbyists in d c are controlling things for the midwest , 
and it does n't matter who they put in office , they 're going to fall subject to the pressure that the lobbyists can put , 
and it 's real true that they 'll say one thing , to get elected , 
and then once they do get elected , they do n't have the power or the authority or the willingness to do those things that they promised beforehand . 
maybe it just was n't possible at all in the first place like the no new taxes thing . 
with the economy going the way it is and everything , that was nearly ridiculous thing to , even try to do . 
i do n't think he 's going to have to worry about that next year . 
i think he can probably raise taxes and still get elected . 
after the war . 
unfortunately that will probably even drop lower , the voters turndown even more because more democrats will think that they do n't have a shot 
so they wo n't even bother turning out . 
that 's true , 
they 'll just say , the republicans have this election 
we 'll see you in four years . 
that 's what they keep saying that it seems like people with old-fashioned values are the ones that are n't turning out at the booths , 
so they do n't , turn out to vote 
and they 're the ones that really know what 's going on , have the experience and seen how politicians can screwup or what ever . 
but , i know , my grandmother has n't voted in years . 
neither has mine as a matter of fact . 
and , that 's true , 
i think they look at it as , everybody , the majority of the people think this way , when that 's not necessarily true , because that 's what the media says . 
the majority believes this way 
so they do n't even bother turning out to vote to express their opinions . 
so that 's true . 
wonder if they 're going to take into account this computerized conversation that there 's little children bouncing in your knee , the whole time you 're talking . 
do you hear the dogs in the background here ? 
i ca n't hear them . 
the children next door just opened the fence 
and they went off . 
i guess we 've talked long enough 
and that was sort of interesting . 
what part of the country are you from ? 
washington , d c , 
are you really ? 
this is dallas where i 'm at . 
the outskirts of dallas . 
i figured with texas instruments they 'd probably have a few texans on the line now and then . 
do you work for t i in any way ? 
how did they get you ? 
they went through engineering companies , 
and we 're communications . 
i work in a communications company . 
i work for t i 
so , we saw it on the t news one day 
and i thought , that might be interesting . 
sort of different . 
they called me at ten o'clock one night , 
that was very strange . 
i guess they were doing eastern standard time . 
i do n't know how long it takes whether it takes five minutes or twenty minutes . 
central standard time is what they 're doing it by . 
i still have n't figured out the zero through six days which day is which yet 
but , i did n't study it that hard 
so maybe i 'll figure it out . 
but it was nice to talk to you and sort of meet you , 
and , that was an interesting topic . 
if you 're ever in d c , come look up wayne sherman , 
you 'll say talked to that guy . 
i 'm kyle hunt , too , if you ever come to dallas area . 
. 
we live right by the airport . 
so do we . 
right next to dulles . 
i 'll talk to you later . 
here goes sharon . 
what do you think about nolan ryan being the first baseball player to earn a million dollars ? 
that 's the only thing i found out tonight . 
you found that out tonight ? 
i have n't even heard that , 
that 's great . 
i think he deserves every penny of it . 
but , there are some others out there that i do n't believe deserve the money they 're getting . 
is n't it funny how baseball 's getting less than football players would . 
and they play a lot longer season , too . 
and a lot more games ? 
that 's exactly right . 
but i think , 
let 's see , 
the teams that were there last year were somebody from california , 
i do n't even know who won the pennant last year . 
beats me . 
i know yankees have won a lot games . through the years . 
not lately though . 
we have been talking about this , 
i tried to call earlier , 
and we had made a list of all these baseball teams and the cities that they were from 
then i started cleaning 
and i do n't even know where i even put that paper . 
threw it away . 
let 's see . 
i think the a 's were in it last year . 
have you ever played baseball ? 
i played softball . 
that 's what i did when i was growing up . 
that was fun . 
that 's fun . 
that 's a whole different sport . 
let 's see , 
but i think the rangers need to go 
and i think the pirates will go . 
and let 's see , 
rangers have got a new guy this year , 
i do n't even remember his name either . 
do you ever go see the rangers ? 
every once in a while i like to go on the nights when there 's not very many people out there . 
it 's a lot more fun when you 're not fighting a crowd . 
i think it 's fun , 
i like just looking at the billboards . 
sometimes if you go out there during the day , you just fry under the sun . 
it 's nice at night . 
that 's when i 've been . 
it is . 
and do you know anything about that new stadium , 
have you seen all those pictures that they 're going to put out there ? 
it 's suppose to be a huge stadium 
and it 's going to have little shopping centers in it and a lake or something running through it . 
and they 're going to try to make it a real community center out there . 
that 's in texas stadium where the football players , play 
and they 're never going to let liquor in there . 
they 're trying . 
i know , 
but they try every year 
and every year they get thrown out . 
it 's so stupid because they let you take it in there , 
but they do n't allow them to sell it there . 
but that new stadium 's going to be real nice , 
and i heard that you can bid on that stadium 
last night on the news i heard that they said you could bid on the stadium to have it named after you , 
and it 's going to go to the highest bidder . 
. that 's the way to do it . 
so that could be your fifteen minutes of fame . 
you hear that ? . 
that 's my kids turning on their music . 
holly turn it down . 
i think it 's the bart man , the simpsons . 
. i stay away from them . 
i wish i could . 
i bet you do . 
where are you ? 
in plano . 
i 'm in garland . 
you are ? 
my husband teaches in plano . 
what 's he teach ? 
c v a e . 
what do you do ? 
i teach , 
but i teach for dallas . 
you do ? 
for right now . 
i 'm trying to get out . 
is that a tough system to be in ? 
real hard ? 
it 's good because they try new things , 
but it 's like , they 'll try something 
and then they throw it out , and get something else , 
and you get tired of that . 
that 's typical bureaucracy though . 
i think it 's going to be any where you go 
it 's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones , 
i do n't know , 
sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad . 
but they ca n't be though , 
they do n't have as much money . 
most of the time . 
but the politics gets worse in the small towns sometimes . 
in dallas you do n't even know who 's in administration , 
there 's so many of them . 
you do n't even know who to payoff ? . 
somebody walks in a classroom 
and you do n't know what they 're there for when they 're coming , how long they 're going to be , 
how funny . 
it 's just there they are 
and they 're writing the whole time . 
no communication whatsoever . 
i had them walk out of my class and not say their name anything , 
and i finally just got to where i go , i 'm debbie moore may i ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for . 
i know . 
and they 'll tell you they 've written something down , 
and you hope they 're telling you the truth . 
and you never see it . 
that 's got to be frustrating . 
it is . 
how long you taught in dallas schools ? 
this is my eleventh year . 
that 's about ten too many . 
now my job 's good , much better than a lot , because i 'm chapter one , 
and all i do is teach reading all day long , 
and it 's just ten children at a time . 
that 's not bad . 
it 's good , 
and you 've got a lot of federal money , too . 
but has n't it changed a lot over the years ? 
teaching ? . 
or working in the system . 
and i said , i want to see a curriculum guide so i 'll know what i 'm suppose to teach 
and they go , we do n't have one . 
we do n't even know where one is . 
and so i go , okay 
you just , did , what you wanted to do , 
how funny . 
and now they tell you what to teach and how long and what day , what period . 
you do n't know , which is worse . 
i know which is worse . 
i guess so . 
being told what to do is worse . 
how long are we suppose to talk for ? 
you can talk for ten minutes 
but you do n't have to . 
you can ? 
and 
if you talk to ten then they come on and say , you 've extended your limit , 
and say good-bye within the next five seconds . 
i have n't ever talked that long . 
i had n't either till last night , i was talking to this retired administrator from cleveland , ohio , 
and we started talking about gangs . 
he lives in cleveland ? 
and , everybody else that i 've talked to has been right around here . 
but , she was real interesting . 
and then tonight this woman called , 
have you taken any incoming calls ? 
yours is my second one . 
so hers was the first one i gotten 
and she was telling me all her problems , 
and it went over ten minutes . 
did you all not talk about the topic at all ? 
we did , 
but the topic was boring i thought . 
what would you serve if you were having a dinner party ? 
the one i talked about the other night was good , 
it was about movies what have you seen at the movies lately and stuff like that . 
i could go on and on about that . 
me , too , 
because we go all the time , 
the guy i was talking to never goes , 
he was , it sounds like you 're really up on this . 
i said , i see at least two a week . 
so , that was real good to talk about that . 
have you seen silence of the lambs ? 
you 've got to go see that . 
the last one i saw was dances with wolves . 
we talked about that one too . 
and he said he did n't think it should have gotten all those awards , 
he thought it was too long 
i enjoyed it . 
i did , too . 
it was just more for my money . 
i did n't think it was too long at all . 
he said after about the first hour he started looking at his watch . 
the other one you need to go see is sleeping with the enemy . 
and , how old are your kids ? 
one is eight 
and one is eleven . 
you probably do n't want to take them to see silence of the lambs . 
it 's not too cool for kids . 
they usually pick their own . 
i bet they do . 
they 've got it all figured out . 
they want to see all the horror movies . 
and ninja turtles . 
ninja turtles , got to have those . 
but most of the time really we watch them on the video . 
do n't you ? 
just massive rental . 
that 's a lot cheaper then taking them out to the show . 
i know . 
especially if you get them for a couple of nights you do n't have to watch them all in one time . 
that 's what we do , especially when it 's bad weather just , plug it in . 
of course , you have to get there early if you want to get anything , decent . 
i know . 
it 's good when you go to tom thumb though 
and they 're cheap 
and nobody has got them yet . 
that 's true . 
unbelievable . 
that 's true . 
we saw heroes have always been cowboys , tonight . 
it was okay , 
it was kind of slow , 
and i felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end . 
i do n't know , 
one of those movies it 's not going to be around long , 
it will be a dollar movie in no time . 
do you read ? 
not very much , 
i do n't have the patience to read . 
i do that to make myself go to sleep at night . 
my mom and dad read all the time . 
you saw field of dreams a long time ago ? 
sure did . 
i was reading the book , 
and it 's called shoeless joe . 
it was so wonderful . 
and then i decided , i like this author , 
so i got a book of his short stories , 
and that 's been real good . 
who is the author ? 
do n't ask me . 
the ghost of shoeless joe was the name of the book . 
shoeless joe . 
was it like the movie ? 
quite a bit . 
but in the movie the guy was black , 
he was n't in the book , 
that 's one difference . 
there really was n't a lot of difference . 
i never even heard that there was a book tied in with that movie . 
that 's interesting . 
that was a good movie , too . 
do you think we covered baseball ? 
i think so . 
have a good night . 
i 'll let you start first ? 
i 'm presently living in a house , 
we had the house built 
and so this is our fifth year in it i guess , 
and it was a real excitement to go out and select the house and have one made and built like you wanted it , 
we were the fourth to build out of three hundred and forty houses . 
and as we did with probably ninety-five percent of the people here in dallas-fort worth we bought a fox and jacobs home , 
and they 're good for about five years or four years 
and after that they start falling apart . 
so , i would not recommend f and j house for my dog to live in because they 're overpriced , 
but they 're a cheap house . 
if you ca n't afford something good , 
they 're good for that , 
and you can call it a home because it 's a place to go home and keep the rain off your head , 
but as far as the costs for what you 're getting the longevity of the house is not worth it . 
how about in your case ? 
in my case my husband is not a carpenter , 
but , in fact , he 's in electronics , 
but he knew the only way we 'd ever have a new home is if he would build it . 
so it took him about two and a half years , 
but he built us a house , 
we have thirty-two hundred square feet , 
and it 's a brick house , 
and price-wise , it was great because he did it all himself , 
so that way we could kind of control it , 
and we live in kind of a small town , 
and it 's nothing fancy , 
it 's a house , 
it 's nice , 
and it 's real pretty 
and we 're all comfortable in it . 
that 's great , 
that 's great , 
i have another gentleman , friend of mine , who had a house built 
as a matter of fact another guy is building one now , 
he 's been doing it for three years 
and the city 's a little upset with him , 
but i understand you save a lot of money off by doing that , 
you can because that way you 're not having to pay the middle men and everybody else . 
nothing wrong with that , 
you know . 
i 'll vouch for that . 
my brother 's a trim carpenter , 
and he came in and did the inside for us , 
and that helped . 
that was a big savings . 
and we had to hire the plumbing and the brick and everything else , 
he did everything else . 
we 've been in it six years . 
that 's great . 
have you been in it long ? 
have you any plans to maybe expand or move onward ? 
our kids are kind of still small now , 
and we had thought before we do n't need such a large house that we 'll sell it , 
but he will not build a second one himself . because he says age-wise he 'll never be able to handle that again . 
i see , 
first one is always a bear . 
we 're having an architect friend of mine design a house for us 
and that can basically be put in any state , , 
so that 's kind of , we just got with him and told him what all we wanted , 
and he 's charging us about a buck a square foot to design it 
and he 's certified , and registered 
at least we know it 's not going to fall in or something if it 's built . 
but i have heard that your approach is right , 
you can actually go out and sub it , even if you do n't want to get hands on , 
you can even just sub it out to concrete and those kind of things 
and that 's kind of the plan i have 
everyone i talk to i file in my little book and do other things with it . 
that 's great , 
that 's great . 
but we could not have one as large as we have if we had n't did it ourselves . 
i can imagine . 
it 's not an eldorado house or anything like that , 
but it 's ours . 
if you 're happy with it , that 's all that counts . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
that 's all , 
you only have to satisfy yourself and no one else . 
apparently the appraisers likes it because our taxes sure is high . 
that 's , an encouraging sign if you ever want to resell , i guess . 
is n't it ? 
it really is 
because i 'm always shocked at what they have it appraised at , 
i think , my goodness . 
that 's great . 
i guess that about does it . 
and it was nice talking to you . 
nice talking with you , too . 
since i 'm in school i do n't basically have a monthly budget because i 'm living off my dad , 
but the thing is that i have to keep it under control because , for example it 's like the beginning of the semester when you go to pay for everything , everything is pretty rough , 
but he controls that part 
it 's like , once the semester starts i 'm the one who has to control how much spending there is . 
and the only thing that i basically spend my money on is just food 
what about tuition and rent ? 
who takes care of that ? 
the thing is that i live in a dorm . 
so what happens is you pay six hundred dollars at the beginning or even before school starts . 
and then the tuition is also the same thing . 
so , the thing is basically that i spend maybe thirty-five , forty dollars every two weeks on groceries 
and that 's about it . 
but the thing also is that if you want to go out if you want to go to a restaurant or something , then i have to moderate that because it 's like i ca n't go eat out at a nice restaurant and spend twenty dollars three times a week . 
you ca n't do that very often . 
for us it 's i can spend that money 
but it 's not what i want to spend it on . 
are you working anywhere while you are going to school ? 
because they do n't allow me to work since i 'm a foreign student . 
and so the government does n't allow me to work . 
so all the money comes from home . 
so how do you keep track of where you are in your monthly spending ? 
the thing is that i basically know how much i have ? 
i get all my money out of the teller . 
and besides one of my biggest expenses is telephone calls since i have to call international . 
where do you call to ? 
argentina . 
argentina ? 
one of the problems is that i spend too much money on phone bills . 
talk too long . 
they want me to call down there every so often . 
i told my dad , dad listen 
if you want to save money i wo n't call so often , 
he goes , we want to keep in touch 
so i does n't matter about the money because we need to hear from you . 
so you call him collect ? 
because it is more expensive that way . 
what makes you , think so ? 
basically the united states is the cheapest country to call out of . 
and because it 's considered a luxury in other countries . 
you just call him direct 
and you get the bill and send it to him ? 
i got money to pay that , too . 
it 's not too much money , 
and it 's not too little money , 
so i wo n't have to rush a letter to him or something , 
because he really wants me to concentrate on my studies . 
what are you studying ? 
i 'm doing masters in computer science and computer engineering . 
and what do you think you 'll do with that ? 
with those degrees ? 
i can work here up to a year . 
and hopefully get a job after that . 
you want to get into some kind of manufacturing , 
or what 's the specialty that you 're looking for ? 
computer communications and data transmissions . 
so you want to find a data transmissions , 
you 're looking for long distance type stuff . 
anywhere from local area networks , metropolitan area networks all that , 
and so you have a family ? 
i have a wife and two children 
and does your wife work ? 
she does n't work , 
it 's kind of hard to say now days , 
other than taking care of the house , she does a lot of sewing herself . 
and she gets paid for that 
so she brings some money in . 
she is trying to start her own business where she does that full time . alterations and sewing . stuff for the public 
and do that on a full time basis here in town . 
and you have a monthly budget ? 
sort of . 
we 're probably like most american families , 
i guess , that we sort of have a budget in that we know how much we 've got at the end of the month , 
and we know what bills have to be paid , 
and we pay as many of those bills that can be paid with the monthly budget , 
you do n't have any problem in overcharging on your credit card , and stuff like that . 
we 're like everybody else , 
we 've got several credit cards that sometimes instead of paying them all off every month maybe you have to slip some and you pay part of it this month and part of it next month especially around christmas time . 
that 's when everybody goes crazy on charging stuff . 
then that 's one of the points which i do n't see , 
i do n't give a lot of gifts during christmas 
and i do n't like to give any at all 
because the thing is that it 's like if i want something i 'll ask somebody , 
for christmas my roommate goes , what do you want . 
and i said , i want a backpack . 
i told him if you want to give me a present for christmas give me a backpack . 
that 's something that you can use . 
because i needed a backpack . 
so , he gave me a backpack , 
and i knew he needed an alarm clock . 
so , i bought him an alarm clock . 
that 's great . utilitarian . 
necessary things , no frivolous gifts . 
but the thing is , especially remember when i was down in argentina 
once a year you go out 
and you spend all this money on all these people , 
and some you do n't care about , 
that 's true , 
why bother . 
i do n't know that you need to be involved in a lot of frivolous gift giving , 
that effects the budget especially around christmas time 
at the end of the semester you 've got finals and lots of bills i would suspect . 
what about when you have breaks christmas or between sessions ? 
for example , we had spring break now , 
and i went skiing 
and i spent around maybe , two hundred dollars . 
i expect so . 
you 've got to budget that though . 
you 've got to save up in to do that ? 
because it 's like , we were saying , let 's go eat out before spring break . 
i go , let 's not go eat out , before spring break . 
let 's see how much money we have afterwards . 
. 
and if i felt like i spent way to much then i wo n't go out , 
and so my roommate went home , 
i went skiing over the carolina mountains which are n't anything , 
but i guess it was worth it , 
sure it is , 
any time you can get away , and , get away from the daily grind . 
it was a nice place . 
especially if you live on campus , and you do n't have a car , you just go crazy . 
i know the feeling . 
so let 's see how long have we been talking here 
six minutes and a half . 
is that okay ? 
nice talking to you . 
nice talking to you . 
have a good time . 
i guess i 'm going to school while i 'm working at t i , 
so there 's not a whole lot of time that i 've got , for hobbies it seems like lately . 
but one of the things that i do when i 've got some spare time is i do some woodworking . 
and that ranges anywhere from carpentry work to some types of furniture and knickknacks stuff you hang on the wall to put a mirror on 
i have quite a few of those that my uncle made . 
i do n't know if it 's the saw dust or the mess you make or the smell of the wood 
as you know , i think it 's more like the mess you make , is n't it ? 
you do n't have to worry about cleaning it up . 
because it 's out there . 
i do n't have to worry about getting stuff on the carpet except when i track in saw dust , 
and the wife gets kind of aggravated about that , 
but then , i get the opportunity to vacuum , 
so i guess i get some of both . 
what are some of your things you like to do ? 
when i have time i do like to sew , 
i had been doing a lot of crocheting . 
i make a lot of afghans or used to make a lot of them . 
my mother was real heavy into crafts , 
and i would help her with whatever she happened to be doing , 
and then , she would go to these arts and crafts shows and sell her needlework . 
so , a lot of times i 'd help her with that . 
i have n't had much opportunity to work on any other craft stuff lately 
we 've been trying to start up a business and then trying to get my garden going . 
it 's a good time for gardening . 
it 's been beautiful this last week 
i could do with a little less wind , 
but i think the temperature has been pretty good so far for working outside . 
do you find you do most of your , crocheting or your knit work around christmas time ? 
i usually start in the fall . 
and my husband says i do it make afghans so i can keep my lap warm . 
that 's kind of what my wife says . 
she enjoys doing it during the cold weather because she 's always got something to cover her legs and feet with while she is working on it . 
i think she made three this year one for my father-in-law and then a couple of brothers and sisters . 
so , those things they take some time to make . 
i found one that 's real easy , 
i ca n't even remember the name of it now , 
but you make it in strips . 
and it 's real easy to do , 
and it 's just that it does n't keep your feet quite as warm because you do it in strips like that 
that 's kind of like quilting . 
mile a minute . 
that 's the name of it . 
mile a minute . 
mile a minute . 
i 'm not sure what she does 
first thing that comes to mind is some kind of chain stitch because she starts and goes all the way across back and forth until she winds up with this big piece of afghan . 
i guess that is your standard knitting , is n't it ? 
usually single crochet always starts it off . 
i know , 
if we have a problem with our connection and get disconnected some time or other , do n't worry about it . 
we have a very small phone company down here . 
and my husband says that 's called rinky-dink . 
instead of call waiting or call anything else . 
we ca n't have that down here . 
we get disconnected all the time . 
i guess that 's one way to end a conversation . 
it gets a little aggravating . 
i 've got kids all over the united states 
and sometimes they get disconnected when i 'm talking to them . 
have you started your garden yet ? 
we planted potatoes and onions and bell peppers . 
what else did i get in there , 
and jalapeno peppers . 
always got to have those . 
i think i had four jalapeno plants last year . 
i think one of them died , 
but i chop them up and put them in jars and usually give them away because there is no way that i can eat all of those 
nobody else in the family likes them , 
but always got to keep those planted . 
my husband does n't like them either , 
but i can always give them away . 
that 's kind of the way i am . 
besides they 're fun to grow . 
i planted zucchini last year . 
i planted four hills of them . 
i think i had three or four seeds in each one of them , 
and those things just flat took over . 
it was n't until late in the summer , 
maybe it was because it was too dry , 
they finally started making zucchini , 
and i 'm not sure when a good time to plant those is , if they should be planted early or later . 
supposedly after the soil warms up . 
i would think so , 
seems like they all went to leaf , 
and it was n't until late in the summer they started making fruit . 
mom would say you planted them in the wrong sign of the moon , 
but i had n't looked at a farmers almanac to find out when a good time for zucchini is . 
i doubt if zucchini is in there . 
it may not be , 
it may not be . 
probably the same time the other squash is though . 
you think they 're later in the year ? 
about the same time that you plant okra because it 's supposed to be warm . 
that 's true . 
most of the okra that is growing around higher is , later okra . 
go ahead . 
i 'm sorry , 
go ahead . 
i was just going to say , it 's a little over six or seven minutes . 
that would be fine . 
just any time . 
i guess we 'll call this one quits 
and thanks for participating . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
have a good time . 
robert what substances do you think are the most likely causes of air pollution ? 
i guess it 's the stuff that comes out of automobile exhaust , 
they say in the paper nitrous oxides and ozone and all that . 
so , i believe them 
but i 'm not a chemist . 
do you think that those are bigger contributors than things like acid rain and some of the pollutants that come from industrial areas , factories and so on ? 
i do n't really know , 
i grew up in los angeles and have felt like i was victimized by air pollution . 
so you understand smog . 
i understand it very well 
and in fact i was a private pilot there , 
it just looked liked peanut butter . 
thick and brown and so on . 
and that was , a few years ago ? 
this was quite a few years ago . 
this was in the nineteen sixties . 
i wonder if it 's any better now . because california has such strict rules about emissions and so on . 
people say that it is somewhat better . 
i do n't know if you heard about the recent legislation in colorado against a power company that 's actually on indian land , i believe , 
but it has been ruled against regarding air pollution because they think that it 's causing terrible smog over the grand canyon . 
and particularly in the winter months . 
they were talking about shutting it down , if it did n't comply and so on . 
did it burn coal ? 
i do n't know that , 
the information is one of those wire services kind of pieces of news , , 
so it 's hard , 
i never did see the full story , 
so i do n't know . 
but they said that it really caused so much smog over the grand canyon in the winter months that they could n't do the piloting the helicopter trips and that sort of thing . which would be horrible , because there 's nothing , 
that 's such a spectacle . 
it would be a shame to ruin it . 
what do you think individuals could do , or society could do to alleviate this problem . 
i do n't know whether we could do a whole lot as individuals . 
maybe just take good care of our cars , and make sure we keep our pollution devices clean and all that sort of thing . 
apart from that , i do n't know what we can do as individuals . 
what do you think we can do ? 
you think , it 's more to society . 
i guess i kind of agree there . 
on an individual basis there is n't a lot we can do about a lot of things 
but if we are concerned about it then we certainly can force government that we elect to deal more seriously with it . 
and i do think that we have a responsibility there . 
i must admit i 'm not always real politically active 
but i do think that congress has backed down much too much on some of the air pollution standards . 
the , lobbyist and the car manufacturing companies have really pushed , 
all those restrictions are really too hard , 
we ca n't quite make that go 
and then we still live with air pollution . 
so i suspect that that 's one thing that as individuals , we can do , make our voices known , perhaps to our legislators . 
but as a society , i think we can do more 
and that 's probably how we ought to do it . being individually responsible in order to be group responsible . 
i guess i 'm to the point where i 'm cynical enough that i really do n't believe anything will happen unless there 's something economically justifiable about it . 
and in the case of air pollution , it simply might turn out at some point down the road , to be so costly to have to live with air pollution in terms of health problems , and everything else that we 'll spend the money that 's necessary to get rid of the source of it . 
i suspect that there 's going to have to be a lot of pressure come to bear on the companies that deal with it 
and probably the only way that can happen is for governments to realize that they have to pay if companies do n't . 
and i do n't know how long that will take . 
people also have to realize they ca n't have their cake and eat it . 
so , if you do n't want to burn coal for power , how about nuclear energy . 
we do n't want that either . 
how about investing in the sun . 
nobody wants to pay twenty-five cents a kilowatt hour , i do n't think . 
i probably would n't mind if it really came down to it . 
it 's just the same thing with the gasoline , 
now is a wonderful time to smack a fifty cent a gallon tax on gasoline , so that we do n't run into the kind of problems we recently had 
and yet the government is not going to do that because people are too dependent 
and they do n't want to pay for it . 
so instead , we spend billions of dollars going to war . 
however , it might have had other causes . 
certainly oil was a big factor . 
and i think that 's probably going to happen with such things as air pollution , 
when we get serious about our motors in our automobiles then maybe we 'll have a little bit of help . 
do you have any air pollution in your area ? 
there 's not really a lot here in raleigh . 
once in a while we 'll get some , 
i think it kind of washes down from your area linda . 
you 're talking about from the middle states , that have more factories and so on . 
that 's what they say 
but it 's not very usual 
and certainly we do n't have the eye stinging variety that you get in the big cities . 
we really do n't have that either . 
i lived in this area for about twenty-five years 
and i think i can tell a difference in the comfort level particularly in the summer . when it gets hot , and you have , that kind of a pressure from the pockets of air usually caused by exhaust . 
it seems to me that i 'm more uncomfortable 
and my eyes sting more and so on and so on . 
so i suspect that it 's an ever growing problem . 
i suspect that we 've probably covered everything that we need to here . 
i think , we 've given them about seven minutes according to my watch 
it was nice talking to you . 
and i enjoyed the conversation . 
so did i . 
have you lived in this area long ? 
i 've only been here a couple of years . 
but i 've noticed that this year it seems to have been a lot warmer than it has in the past . 
it 's a lot warmer , a lot drier too , because usually about this time of year , you see a little bit more rain . 
by mid february we start getting a lot of rain . 
i remember last year , or the year before we had ice and snow , 
terrible ice storm around this time of the year . 
and this year it 's been so hot and sunny 
it 's really quite amazing . 
unseasonable . 
my wife and i we used to live in san antonio , couple years ago , 
and it was the first day of spring , 
it was so much ice that came down , later on that afternoon and evening , 
it was horrible . 
i was just talking to my son today , 
he 's up in boston , 
and it was twenty-nine there 
and it was in the seventies out here 
he really wished he could be here , rather than there . 
i do n't know 
i guess i 'm just sort of acclimated to colder weather . 
i like it warmer , 
i like it warm 
but it does n't really matter . 
i would much rather see it cool at this time of year anyway because it would mean a little bit more rain possibly 
i think it 's really been delightful . 
i 've spent most of my time in warm weather areas 
and the ice and snow just does n't hold any allure for me at all . 
i spent three years in germany , 
so i 'm not too thrilled with the whole thing anyway . 
but i got used to it , 
it was really strange , 
when we came to san antonio it was just 
and then we got used to it 
and then we went up to dallas 
it 's not that it 's just hot or dry , 
it 's just not very comfortable , 
do you think san antonio is more comfortable than dallas . 
a little bit . 
it must be quite a bit hotter down there , is n't it ? 
we were down there 
and , the last day , right before we left , i had to ride with my sister 
and the air conditioning went out on the car , 
and , you just get used to air conditioning all the time , 
the humidity was eighty percent plus 
and it was just killing us . 
it 's terrible . 
orlando is the only place i 've ever been where i 've seen the car sweat . 
that 's really bad . 
just so mild , 
and then you 've been to such extremes like san angelo , texas where you walk outside and you sweat , 
you 're sweating , 
you look down at your arm , 
but you see the water leaving your arm , 
it 's so hot , you just feel it pulling away , 
bizarre . 
i know i tend to be able to get along with monotony in the weather when it 's very temperate . 
some people say they like to watch the changing of the seasons 
but i 'd rather like southern california have it kind of sunny and temperate all the time . 
so , it 's kind of a luxury . 
i tend to agree 
but , i do n't know , 
i think , in some respects it probably more tolerable . 
i guess the weather is n't as lively a topic as some of the others we might have gotten . 
i got one topic , 
my daughter is here prodding me to say good-bye . 
we messed up the conversation , anyway . 
i 've had some pretty controversial topics 
so it 's just that was my fault . 
it gets pretty mundane , 
you can only talk about the situation just so long . 
i know , 
weather 's just not all that inspiring . 
it 's nice talking to you . 
my favorite , probably , all time t v show is star trek . 
and i would , 
i like the adventure of it . and the idea that we would survive long enough to get to that point and be able to do these fantastic things in space . 
they have a new one now . 
the star trek the next generation . which it 's an all new cast , but kind of the same idea , going out to new places and doing new things and finding out about different people , 
and i 've always liked that show probably the very best . 
i think i 've actually seen a number of star treks , one way or another over the years . although i never watched it regularly . 
i 'm certainly acquainted with the characters . 
and then i 've seen some of the star trek movies . 
the movies are good too . 
and i guess most of the shows i like , are kind of along the same line because they 're all adventure . 
when i started thinking about this , those are some of my favorite shows , 
mcgyver , because it 's only one person there instead of a cast of people , 
but he 's always going out and inventing new things out of scrap , and grabbing what he can and pieces of baling wire and a few tires 
and all of a sudden he 's got a hang glider 
i do n't think i 've even heard of that show . 
you have n't ? 
it 's called mcgyver ? 
and what is he ? 
he 's a semigovernment type agent . who works for the phoenix foundation , supposedly . 
and his big thing is that he can take little bits and pieces of string and baling wire and turn them into fantastic different things . 
he took a car battery and some wire and two washers one time and made a welder . 
so he does all kinds of strange things like that . 
boeing ought to hire him and give him a junkyard , and see if he could build a seven forty-seven out of it . 
see what we can come up with . 
do you like the news shows , twenty twenty , sixty minutes , those kind of things ? 
i used to watch sixty minutes as a matter of fact , 
and i used to like the show very much . 
but , unfortunately i find getting rid of your t v set , you do throw out some of the baby , with the bath water . 
some of the little things , 
and i just decided i had to do that . 
i think , in part because it was easy for me to become addicted to it , 
i could just sit mindlessly in front of a t v set for hours . 
and i just realized , i was sort of like an alcoholic , 
if i did n't get the booze out of the house , i was going to drink . 
i guess i have n't ever had any trouble with that . 
i have my favorite shows 
and i usually make time in my day or my week to watch those . 
but , for the most part , i have small kids 
and i try and keep it on just a minimum amount of time , really when they 're up . 
and one of my other favorite shows is sesame street because of the kids . 
i like that real well . 
when my kids were little , i did have a t v set 
and i did watch a lot of sesame street and a lot of electric company , as well . 
i do n't think they have that on anymore . 
that would be a shame . 
i have n't seen the electric company in a long time . 
i remember it when i was younger catching it on p b s , 
but they 're not making new ones . 
i have n't seen it in a long time . 
but sesame street is still really good . 
how about mister rogers , 
is he still around ? 
they still show mister rogers . 
i do n't think he 's making new ones , 
but they repeat all the old ones . 
i see . 
i see . 
so that 's still a real good show too . 
that one tends to come on earlier in the day than i want to turn the t v on . 
sesame street comes on from nine to ten , which is a good time 
and everybody is up and had breakfast and dressed and ready to go , 
the timing of it is good , besides , what 's on . 
i figure your children are preschool ? 
i have two little ones . 
so they like that . 
i seem to remember those shows being on in the afternoon . 
they come on both . 
they come on from nine to ten and then from five to six . 
another thing that 's good about it , when it comes on right in the dinner hour . i can feel like i can let them sit in front of the t v and watch , 
and they 're watching something worthwhile , while i can make dinner and do things i need to do without them under foot . 
i used it as a pacifier . 
i 'm not sure it was that great for my children , 
but they turned out okay , 
it did n't hurt them any . 
for the imagination of it all . 
the idea , i think that 's one of the things i like about star trek . 
for kids watching some of it can be a little violent sometimes and stuff . 
i do n't let my little ones watch it , 
but the imagination of , look what we can do 
in the future , perhaps , this will be possible . 
that kind of thing . 
i think we 've covered most of my favorite t v shows . 
i 'm trying to think if i ever even had a favorite one at one time . 
let 's see , 
how about man from uncle ? 
is that the one where he always got this tape recording that self-destructed ? 
that 's mission impossible . 
that 's right , 
mission impossible . 
i used to watch that . 
in fact , i can still remember a couple of those . 
i thought those were very good . 
i 've seen some of them on repeats . 
they always had a good plot . 
it kind of kept you guessing on , what was going to happen next . 
how they 're going . 
i do remember that . 
and i remember as a kid my parents watching the ed sullivan show . 
that was really the big deal in our household , was the ed sullivan show . 
every saturday night ? 
i guess it was a saturday night , 
and i went to see the movie the doors a couple of days ago , 
and they had this scene portraying the doors ' appearance on the ed sullivan show . 
they even had somebody portraying ed sullivan , 
and it was very , very funny . 
i think it was the funniest part of that movie . 
i do n't know , 
i remember the milton berle show even , 
i 'm not old enough to recall that one . 
i guess , i have to admit that i am . 
my t v viewing started sort of mid-sixties , 
i see . 
i 'm not even sure if we had one when i was really little . 
that may be why , 
they probably did n't have a t v until i got to be grade school or so . 
and the shows that i like now , they would n't let me watch . 
i had to catch them all on repeats . 
like star trek , 
they thought that was much too violent for small children . 
i ended up watching a lot of these things on repeats in the afternoons or something . 
that 's interesting . 
i think it 's interesting that parents think that their small children learn violence from tv , 
people were just as violent before t v was invented , 
maybe even more so . 
but i guess that 's a different topic is n't it ? . 
probably so . 
i think that 's about covered it for me , 
so i think i 'll say good-bye 
and we 'll talk another time perhaps . 
it was nice talking to you . 
tell me where you 're calling from . 
i 'm calling from garland , texas . 
garland , texas . 
where are you from ? 
i 'm in raleigh , north carolina . 
i did n't know they did it long distance . 
i hope they 're trying to do it all over the country , because they need to collect all kinds of different dialects . 
it was nice talking to you . 
same here . 
i think we 're supposed to discuss our view of the soviet union as a continuing threat to the united states . 
how do you feel about that . 
the people i would n't consider to be a threat at all 
and i really do n't feel much like the soviet union itself is a threat anymore . 
i 'm worried about them . 
they 're in a very tumultuous state right now with the kinds of adaptations that they 're attempting to go through . 
i 'm concerned about them not as a military threat , but as a burden . 
they 're very large 
and they can become very quickly a large financial burden , as one more stepchild we have to carry around . 
i think that 's a real important aspect 
let 's see , 
the more that we can do to help them become self-sufficient is going to eliminate more of the risk of that becoming a reality . 
i know that this last winter was very hard on several areas in the ukraine , particularly the coal mining regions of siberia , 
the people there have money , 
that 's not their problem , 
but there 's no food for them to buy , 
you ca n't eat money . 
and they have , a problem , their whole attitude , 
i 'm not sure which crop it was , 
but they had a crop that rotted in the fields because they could n't get anyone to harvest it . 
and the people in the city were saying , why should i go do that . 
make the government do that , 
that 's not my job . 
they 've got a lot of adjustments to make with coming out of what they 've been through now , 
but they do n't know how to act yet . 
they do n't understand that to make that work , they 've got to take some responsibility for themselves . 
it 's not just the government 's responsibility anymore . 
you ca n't just blame it on the government 
when they give you the freedom to take care of yourself then that puts some responsibility on you as well . 
and i think that they 're having a hard time with the concept of you can not go back . 
people only go forward 
i 'm expecting a call 
and unfortunately , i think it 's come through . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
thank you , 
real problem the last few days , one of their young hopeless stars has apparently ruined his knee for this season , 
it was a catcher . 
and they really do n't have an excess of catchers 
and it 's really kind of late to , be trying to trade for somebody , especially with the salary cap that the rangers have . 
they 're not the highest paying ball team around . 
they 're not , are they . 
but i would gladly take the salary of most of the guys , i 'll tell you . 
i would too , 
even the bench warmer , i would . 
that 's right . 
i really have n't been an active ranger fan in several years . 
i used to go , take my son , 
when he was in high school , he enjoyed going to baseball games . 
i 'll have to admit i kind of went more to see the other team a lot of times than i did the rangers , 
but , i think they 're doing better . 
i do to , 
i have boys eight and eleven 
and we go quite often , to watch the rangers . 
i can imagine . 
i used to love to play baseball when i was a kid . 
we 're heavy into that too . 
i think it 's more fun to play than it is to watch . 
i do too . 
of course , 
of course . 
as a matter of fact i read in the sports page this morning , 
he just pitched his first exhibition game a day or so ago , 
and he pitched five full innings . 
that was almost unheard of for a pitcher to start out that strong . 
no big deal , 
it 's just part of a day 's work . 
i know it , 
he 's something else , 
he really is . 
as far as predictions and stuff , i really think the rangers may come out real strong this year . 
they could do very well , 
they sure could . 
i do n't know 
but last year i just figured they was under a lot of pressure because of all the publicity and everything , 
i really do . 
all their players are signed now . 
some of them are not too happy about it 
but there 's no hold outs . 
at least , that should help , 
that should help . 
it sure should . 
it should . 
and of course , there 's a few more are good ball teams also . 
like oakland a 's and the giants 
i really do . 
cincinnati . 
there sure are . 
i like to go watch the giants when they come to houston some times . 
that 's right . 
i 've never seen the astros play . 
you have n't ? 
i have a few times . 
they 're a good ball team . 
that 's right . 
they really are . 
they sure are . 
would n't it be something to have a world series between the rangers and the astros . 
would n't it though . 
i tell you 
that would draw a crowd , would n't it . 
would n't it . 
it sure would . 
we might actually get to go to a world series . 
that 's right , 
would n't that be something . 
it sure would . 
that 's something you dream about . 
but there are a lot of ranger fans around . 
there sure is 
and they really are . 
incavalia i do n't know how familiar you are with him 
but , last year i was kind of thinking he sure did get in a slump . 
but they 're saying this year , their predictions is that he 's really going to come out of it and , be on top . 
he 's a bull , is n't he ? 
is n't he though , 
he really is 
he sure is . 
he either hits home run or strike out . 
that 's right . 
there is not ever a in between for him . 
that 's right , 
it 's kind of like babe ruth . 
they were saying something about this may be his last year with the rangers though . 
apparently i think his contract is up after the end of this year 
and they 're not sure they 're going to be able to sign him again . 
to sign him again , 
that may or may not happen . 
you never know . 
that 's right , 
it 's a long way away . 
if you offer them money , i 'm sure they 'll do a little bit of everything . 
that 's right . 
that 's right , 
unfortunately the rangers do n't spread it around quite as big as some of the other teams do . 
like that joe hosago . 
that 's right . 
. 
is there going to be a ticket increase this year , 
do you know . 
i had n't heard . 
i have n't either , 
i really have n't , 
those cowboys have increased their prices again this year . 
but i did n't know , 
i do n't think i 've heard anything on the rangers , 
or i do n't remember it if i have . 
i had n't either , 
we had n't , 
i do n't even guess they 've even thought about sending the schedules out yet . 
i guess it 's too early . 
because we usually get one . 
we usually order our tickets way in advance . 
it 's a good idea , 
we try to go so often . 
if you have young children they get a kick out of it . 
they do . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
you too lori . 
and , hopefully we 'll get to talk again . 
you take care . 
you said you have four cats ? 
i have four cats . 
how old are they ? 
they range from about a year and a half to nine years old . 
i have n't had my oldest one quite nine years , 
i 've had him probably five years . 
you get so attached to them . 
i love my cats . 
i lost one , one time , 
the first one i got . 
he jumped off the balcony actually , of a second story apartment . 
and he 'd never been outside by himself outside . 
and it started raining 
and i was hysterical . 
you would have thought a child had died . 
i called everyone i knew , 
i had every friend i knew in the apartment searching for this cat . 
i understand . 
and they laughed at me , 
they thought that was so hysterical . 
i understand , 
we 've gone through the same things with ours , 
they 've been ill , 
i take off work , to take care of my cats , 
my boss thinks i 'm absolutely crazy . 
and then we had a baby 
and it 's who comes first 
the cat or the baby . 
the cat was here first 
so . i know , 
it 's hard . 
and then when we go to sleep at night it 's like my husband and i have to try to get any space on the bed because we have all four of them up there with us . 
how funny . 
it 's whose corners is this one . 
that 's sweet , 
i have the two , 
the other two cats i have are outdoor cats . 
and they did n't used to be actually , 
but they got kind of wild and were n't doing very well inside , 
so i put them outside once i got a house 
and they 're doing great out there , 
they love it . 
but the first one i got he does n't want anything to do with outside unless you 're there . 
other than that he gets scared to death . 
if you shut that door he goes into hiding . 
i think it 's from the time he jumped off the balcony . 
that 's it . 
and lord knows what happened to him . 
he 's probably been through all kinds of nightmares . 
traumatized for life here . 
all four of ours are house cats . 
are they . 
we started out with two outdoor cats 
but our neighbor decided he did n't like cats and shot one of them . 
he lived through it , 
i could n't believe it . 
we went through twenty-two hundred dollars worth of vet bills . 
the cat almost died , 
but he turned out to be such a wonderful cat , 
he loves life now . 
i imagine . 
and he 's thank you so much . 
i wonder how many of his lives he missed , when that happened . 
i know , 
we wondered about that . 
but that was a traumatic experience for us too . 
i can imagine , 
what did he shoot him with . 
from what we can tell it was a pellet gun 
and then he started chasing him with a bull whip . 
people are crazy . 
absolutely nuts . 
but luckily enough we found the cat in time and rushed him to the vet 
and it took us about six weeks of in and out of the vet and surgery 
he started off as a stray 
and then we did all this for him . 
but he 's been a wonderful cat . 
i imagine . 
they usually are after something like that happens to them . 
it seems to mellow them or something . 
i do n't see us without pets , without cats . 
they just fill this void . 
i keep talking about getting rid of my outdoor cats because i feel like i ca n't take care of them as well because they 're outside , 
and it worries me that one day one of them wo n't come back , 
and i feel like they need a big home , a nice place where someone can have the time to play with them and things . 
but i ca n't give them up . 
i go hysterical when they do n't come home . 
and you worry about who 's taking care of them . 
and every time you see one hit on the side of the road you say is that my cat . 
and you go crazy thinking it might be yours . 
i did n't realize my husband was such a sucker for animals until i brought one home one night . 
i had one we had to put to sleep he got so sick . 
and i fell in love with this chinchilla persian , and brought him home , 
and my husband just died . 
it was we ca n't take it back 
we 've got to keep it now . 
it 's here now , 
we have to keep it . 
i had just moved away from home and got my own apartment . 
it took me about two weeks to realize , that was real lonely . 
so i found this one 
and actually it was on a sign at taco bell drive-thru that said free kittens . 
and i thought that 's interesting , 
i 'll call them . 
and he was the only one left 
and his mother had been killed coming back across the road to make sure she 'd gotten all her kittens . 
and he was the last one she carried across , 
the whole big sad story . 
so of course , i had to take him . 
i felt so sorry for him after that . 
and you can tell he was weaned too young because he 'll nurse on your ears and your fingers . 
i asked the vet why he did that 
and he said he was probably weaned too young , which he was , because his mom was killed , 
but he is the lovingest cat . 
people who do n't even like cats , like him . 
he never meows , 
he does n't have any front claws , 
i had him declawed , 
but he does n't bite anybody 
he 's just kind of there , real friendly and docile . 
that 's good . 
we just love them . 
they get to feeling so lovey and dovey 
and they 'll come up and just start kneading in our chest 
and it 's your claws need trimming . 
we call that doing biscuits , 
it looks like they 're kneading bread . 
it just drives us nuts . 
i just love cats . 
i like dogs , 
they 're okay , 
i had a dog when i lived at home 
but they 're a lot more trouble than cats actually . 
they really are . 
the cats are so independent 
and they have so much more personality than a dog . 
they do . 
but they 're so much fun to watch them play . 
they are . 
i love it , 
it 's so funny to get more than one cat together , because it brings out their personalities . 
and they just act so funny . 
the two that were outside , they 're like brothers , 
i 've never seen two cats so close . 
and they will get to playing chase through the house , 
and it is hysterical 
and then the other two cats will follow in pursuit . 
it 's like this train . 
a train of cats running around . 
it sounds like a train . 
we have wooden floors 
and so it just sort of echoes through the house . 
how funny , 
i can imagine . 
i would n't give anything for my cats . 
i love them to death . 
they 're wonderful . 
what are your cats ' names . 
we have bonzo , bear , poindexter , and felix . 
how sweet . 
and what do you have . 
i have xanadu and precious , and rascal . 
precious and rascal are brother and sister 
and they do n't look a thing a like . 
nothing . 
precious is a medium hair yellow cat , 
and rascal is a black and white short hair . 
nothing . 
they do n't look a thing a like , 
not a thing . 
and they came from the same litter and everything . 
we have tortoise which is a black and orange . 
and she 's so ugly . 
so ugly she 's cute , 
you ca n't help but love her . 
she 's the oldest one but , very possessive . 
it 's like nobody messes with her mamma . 
and it comes bedtime 
and she 's right there . 
is she the oldest one ? 
she 's the oldest . 
in fact i got her when i moved out of the house also . 
and so 
if something happens to her . 
i know 
it 's like the end of the world . 
it will be . 
i know that 's how i am about xanadu . 
you get so attached to them . 
my mother has dogs 
and i 'm no . 
this is nothing like cats . 
you can walk a dog 
and that 's okay for weekend 
but cats are good all the time . 
i 'm so glad my husband is a cat person because if he was a dog person it would n't have worked . 
it would n't have , 
that would be a problem . 
that 's one of the requirements i asked him . 
i said , you do like cats . 
do you ever read cosmo . 
there was cartoon in cosmo about a year or two ago 
and it had this man sitting on a couch with his date 
and there were cats hanging all over him . hanging on his clothes , 
they had ripped him up 
and the couch was ripped up and down at the bottom 
he said , of course i love cats . 
and they were just all over him and sitting on his head , the whole nine yards . 
it was so funny . 
the whole time i was pregnant they kept saying , are you getting rid of your cats , 
are you getting rid of your cats . 
you ca n't be pregnant and have cats . 
i 'm . 
watch me . 
the child will learn to like cats . and deal with them , 
i 'm sorry , 
we are not getting rid of the cats . 
i would n't either . 
there 'd be no way . 
the whole family was so disappointed . 
that 's life , 
that 's how life goes . 
but 
we just love them to death . 
i know , 
i love mine too . 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
it was nice talking to you too , 
i enjoyed it . 
me to . 
the latest one i 've seen had to do with basically a manhunt , 
and it was called manhunter , actually . 
the guy apparently had a , mental disfunction in which he needed to go out and just slay people . just kill them with as much blood and guts as possible . 
how awful . 
it was truly awful . 
it was not one that i picked , 
but it did show some interesting things about the f b i 
because the characters trying to get him were f b i people 
and of the few good things that were in it , it did show a lot about the f b i . about the training , and how they go through training and how they try to develop a mental picture of who they 're looking for before they go out and do it and all the different ways they go about doing that . 
and it was pretty telling about the f b i and their procedures . 
i wonder how truthful all of that was or whether there was fiction . 
i imagine a lot of it had to be fictional just to keep the f b i going . 
they keep it rather secretive , 
two of them actually . 
the rain man was one . 
that was great one . 
was n't that fabulous , 
and driving miss daisy . 
i loved it . 
i have n't seen that one yet , 
and i need to go see it . 
you need to see that . 
that is the most heart rendering story of relationships between two people . two diametrically opposed people from the stand point that one was jewish and one was black 
and this all took place in the south . 
and normally never the twain shall meet . 
you bet , 
especially in the south . 
and it really was a fantastic movie . 
the acting was phenomenal . 
as i recall it got some academy awards , did n't it . 
jessica tandy won best actress 
that 's right . 
it might have one best picture , too . 
it did , 
it did . 
just as rain man with dustin hoffman that was tremendous and tom cruise . 
that was , 
i think it was more a lesson for tom cruise than anything else in terms of how to act from dustin hoffman , 
that was , what much of the hype was that tom cruise learned so much from dustin hoffman . 
it must have been great just being with him on a daily basis and seeing how he prepares for his lines and all that stuff . 
and a good bit of that was filmed right in cincinnati . which is just forty-five miles from where i actually live in a suburb of dayton . 
is the kmart there ? . 
we do have kmart here , 
you better believe it . 
is n't there a kmart everywhere ? 
that was so funny , 
or was it kmart . 
he had to buy his underwear at kmart . 
that was hilarious . 
the first , scene in that movie that really got my attention concerning the disease and all that was when he dropped the toothpicks , 
and he was able to count the number of toothpicks just by a mental image . 
unbelievable . 
there are people referred to as savants also , who can do most phenomenal things 
and everyone feels they are totally retarded . 
that 's right . 
but there 's a lots going on in there . 
it 's amazing . 
and i think the best thing about rainman was the way that they put together the real awfulness of the disease , only , 
and then they balanced it with the wonderfulness of it , 
and you need to work with it certainly on a daily basis but then again work with it toward a good end . not toward winning in las vegas , for example . 
the warmth that developed between them 
and again it was a picture of relationships . 
again the relationship between the two that never would have occurred by accident . 
i was so impressed with that movie 
i saw it three times . 
did you . 
i can tell you so much about that movie , just because it really rang a lot of my personal background . 
i have a brother myself that 's older 
nothing , serious is wrong with him 
but we have gone through these lapses of a relationship , sometimes , 
and then for no real direct reason we get into a really good relationship for a while and then back and forth 
so i was really able to relate to the relationship aspect of the movie between the brothers . 
that was neat . 
that 's tremendous , 
it 's good because it does make you think , about your own family . 
a lot . 
and it did bring out a lot of thoughts between you and your brother . 
no question , 
he 's one of these guys though that does n't really like to go see movies like that . 
he likes the bang them up and shoot them up things . 
and , it was like pulling teeth to go get him to see it 
but . he gave the best response that i 've heard him give of this type of movie for rain man . 
he only saw it one time , 
and he did n't go back for more , 
but he said he enjoyed it 
he at least saw it one time . 
i do n't know , 
he 's kind of a dustin hoffman fan anyway . 
but before he saw the movie he was disappointed that dustin hoffman would do this . 
i 'm come on . 
just think of what a phenomenal actor dustin hoffman is . 
he will do that , to research it and to be able to mimic a person with the kinds of problems that he had . 
and to make it believable . 
i was believing it , 
i do n't know about any body else 
it was great . 
i 'm sure everybody that saw it was believing it right along with them . 
he did great . 
it 's just been delightful talking with you . 
you take care up there 
and let 's hear it for the summertime . 
absolutely , 
i 'm ready for it , 
but they 're predicting some more snow for our direction . 
take care . 
take care . 
our community does n't really have any organized recycling drive . 
where do you live ? 
i live in san antonio . 
san antonio ! 
i live in garland 
we just built a real big recycling center , that recycles everything imaginable 
but , as far as trash pick up and stuff that a lot of the communities are doing , they 're testing that . 
so , they 're really not full force into it , 
but they 're trying , 
so we 're attempting it , 
but i wish we could do more . 
there 's been no emphasis on recycling at all in san antonio . 
i used to work for the power company here 
and there was discussion for a while about building a garbage burning electric generation plant 
but it just was n't cost effective , at the time . 
and there 's little recycling trucks and things throughout the city 
but there is n't any advertising campaign . 
there 's just not any push to recycle . 
i recycle my newspapers and my aluminum stuff . 
that 's what i do . 
but they make it as hard as possible , 
it 's not very convenient to do . 
we have those which i think is one of the best things is those cash for cans . 
i do n't know if you all have those things around . 
and i really like that because that makes it real convenient because they 're in almost every shopping center , 
and you can just stop by . 
everything else like the paper and plastic and stuff you still have to go to the centers 
but for aluminum that 's real nice 
and i started doing that at work . 
i put out a trash can for people to put their aluminum cans in , 
and that 's really helped a lot , 
everybody 's pitched in 
and it does n't bother them to walk little bit farther put their aluminum in a can rather than just throwing it in their trash can . 
so , i really like that , 
but , people are really concerned , 
it 's just that sometimes it 's not the right people , which is really , really sad because , i wish we would do more . 
at work we started all the recycling stuff . 
they 're really trying , 
i think what started it at work was that planet earth thing we had last year . 
and that really , started a lot of stuff off , 
but sometimes it dwindles down . 
where i work now we recycle all the computer paper . 
that 's good . 
but that 's about the extent of it . 
at least you 're trying something . 
it would be nice if it could be more . 
and i 'm sure that the driving factor for recycling the computer paper is that we get paid to do so . 
do you really . 
we sell the paper back to a paper manufacturing company . 
that 's a neat idea . 
it defrays the cost of buying the paper , i think . 
not by much , 
but it does defray it some . 
enough to make it worth our while to have several bins through out the building . 
that 's really good , 
at least they 're trying . 
and i thought , i do n't understand this . 
we 're trying to cut cost and everything like that , and recycle and all that stuff 
and here we are wasting . 
and i do n't understand , sometimes , the logic behind it . 
someone moved offices in my building 
and the properties people came in with the good cardboard boxes and packed everything up and moved them and left them lying around , 
i took several home because i 'm moving pretty soon 
and they 're good boxes . 
that 's exactly what i did . 
and they were just going to throw them away . 
exactly what i did , 
exactly . 
because i did n't want to waste that . 
and it 's hard enough to find good packing boxes . 
you can unfold them . 
so they do n't take up much storage space . 
that 's very good . 
i felt a little guilty about taking the boxes for about two seconds until i realized they would be thrown away , 
i thought , i was doing them a favor by taking them . 
i found about nine of them that had not even been folded into boxes , that were in the dumpsters . 
so many people go to the grocery store and stuff and get those boxes , when these are perfect , 
the ones at the grocery store , half the time , they 've pulled the lid off 
so you ca n't use it anyway . 
and the real sturdy boxes that copy room paper comes in , with the nice lids . those get thrown away . 
and i am constantly scouting out the copy room for those boxes . 
that 's exactly what i do . 
those are perfect boxes to put files in . 
they 're good for storage and stuff like that . 
that 's what i do with a lot of my daughter 's things is i 'll store her out dated or , out of season clothes in them 
and they 're just perfect . 
i do n't have any now , 
but i would buy some cheap wallpaper from somewhere and cover those nice boxes with the lids , 
and you can stack them up and leave them out and put things in them , even . 
and they look just as good . 
that 's a smart idea . 
i think i 'll have to try that . 
that 's really cute . 
it 's cheaper than going and buying the kind at target that are all ready with the little design on them or whatever . 
they 're the exact same thing . 
that 's all they are , 
they just made them look fancy . 
you saved me some money . 
and you 're recycling . 
that 's neat . 
we have places that pay for paper to recycle , 
i know you do yours at work , 
but for newspaper . 
but ours are real hard to find . 
that 's the one thing that really discourages me . 
i recycle paper , 
it 's almost like they do n't want the paper , because they do n't pay , at all , 
they 're real hard to find the places that pay . 
and that 's really discouraging . 
i just go ahead and take it to the regular place , where they just accept it . 
but i think they should 
the aluminum , 
it gets people to , doing it , 
you do n't have to pay them a lot . 
i live near a walmart 
and there 's a big huge dumpster looking thing sitting out front , 
in fact i think there 's two of them , that have several openings , 
and it 's for recycling 
and they have aluminum and newspaper and plastic and some other category , 
maybe there 's two for aluminum . 
and you do n't get paid 
but it 's real convenient just to chunk the newspapers in there . 
that 's good . 
at work we have two different trash cans at your desk . 
you have one for paper and one for just your normal trash , 
but in the paper one you have to separate . 
you have to make sure you do n't throw away any of the slick paper , like magazines . 
you ca n't throw any of that away 
and you ca n't throw certain file type things away , 
and i just think it 's such a hassle , 
it seems like it would be easy to take it all , 
i do n't know , 
of course , i do n't know all that about recycling 
so , it probably is a hassle . 
but i do get tired of having to separate paper . 
i guess you have to make it a habit , 
you have to get so used to doing it that it 's a habit . 
they come and empty your trash 
every other day they do your normal trash 
and every other day they do your recycling trash . 
and somebody was writing in complaining that the people had dumped all the trash in the same bin . 
and when they were questioned about it they said we 're running late , 
or we did n't have time to do those bins or something 
and that 's real discouraging . thinking you 're sitting there working to separate it 
and someone else is n't going to take the time to put it in two separate bags . 
so they 're really , trying to start keeping an eye out for those 
separate them 
because that is discouraging when you do that . 
it was hard to get used to those two different trash cans . 
but luckily that will all get straightened out 
and they 'll start separating them . 
because , i do n't mind doing that , 
i feel like i 'm doing something for the community when i 'm doing that . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
you too . 
i , thank you . 
the last movie that i saw , 
i do n't go to that many 
so i 'll just have to talk about the ones that i went to see , 
but it was awakenings with robin williams and peter deniro . 
have you seen it . 
unfortunately i have n't , 
i heard it 's really good , 
it is . 
i just have to take my hat off to peter deniro . 
he is one of the best actors i 've ever seen . 
this doctor discovers a drug that brings them back to the living , more or less , 
but it wears off . 
it starts off with a tic , 
and then it gets to where he ca n't control his movements at all . 
and it was just so realistic . 
the way you have to just keep reminding yourself that he 's an actor . 
what is robin williams , 
does he have a funny part in it ? 
how does he do serious . 
he 's good , 
he 's talented , 
he is . 
i 've only seen him in funny stuff 
i know , 
me too . 
but what was that show , 
i want to say garfield 
but that was n't it . 
the world according to garp . 
the world according to garp . 
he was n't always funny in that show , was he . 
i did n't see the movie , 
i read the book 
i did too . 
that 's why i was thinking it could n't be just a totally funny part . 
in fact , it got some pretty serious deep parts in it 
what have you seen ? 
i think the last movie that we went out to see was dances with wolves . 
i saw it . 
we 've both seen one . 
did you cry through it ? 
the whole way . 
it was telling a friend , 
i said , i only cried twice , 
but each was about half an hour long , 
where did you cry . 
let 's see , 
each time that i thought that the indians were going to get killed , i cried . 
i cried the first time when the wagon man got killed , when they attacked him . 
and i think from there on , all the way through the movie . 
let 's see 
what other parts . 
i ca n't remember any of the other parts right off now . 
i cried when the horse got killed and when the wolf got killed . 
i do n't remember when the horse got killed . 
when he was riding back to the settlement and they shot his horse out from under him . 
and then the next day he looked out there and saw those buzzards . 
and that horse has been such a pal to him , when he was alone . 
you can tell i 'm an animal lover , 
you can hear my dog . 
unfortunately we do n't have any animals , 
it was a beautiful story , 
it really was . 
there was a lot of pretty scenery , too , in that movie . 
what did you think about the buffalo scenes . 
i thought it was awful , and so graphic , 
that was , 
i had n't even imagined it . 
i think we all heard the story of the slaughter of the buffalo . 
i had a friend who had fixed some buffalo chili about a week before went to see the movie . 
of course they raise them now to eat . 
but we were both feeling so guilty about enjoying this chili after seeing that . 
at least you know that it was n't same situation that the buffalo died in . 
it was n't . 
i thought the scenes when the buffalos , though , were beautiful , 
that was great . 
and there were so many of them . 
i did n't know that . 
that was pretty . 
and to think about how it just changed the whole landscape , 
you could follow this beaten down path , 
and it sounded like thunder and earthquakes and that sort of thing . 
i wonder how they kept up with them , though , 
it seemed like the buffaloes were moving so fast . 
i know . 
i guess they graze , though , 
that would n't be a problem . 
have you seen any of the behind the scenes of that movie . 
they tried to keep it very close to real . 
kevin costner did all of his own scenes 
and they had to teach a wolf how to howl . 
that 's the , part they had trouble finding was wolves . 
i guess they 're just not domesticated , 
what , 
they just do n't howl that much anymore . 
. that 'll teach them in a couple minutes . 
i could bring them in with my dogs and set a siren off 
and that 's all they 'd have to do . 
that 's funny . 
i think we 've made it . 
is that five minutes , 
i do n't know , 
is it five or three . 
i 'm not sure . 
i 'm not either . 
i think we 've done okay , though . 
me too . 
thank you for calling . 
thank you . 
you too . 
back by that . 
there are so many ramifications to this entire thing of how women have changed , 
look at them , 
in england , margaret thatcher was prime minister , 
indira ghandi in india , 
so many women are heads of state 
and we keep saying we feel some day a woman will be president . 
but i have some question , whether or not they will ever really get around to that . 
i think we 'll have a black president before we have a women president . 
and i do n't know whether that 's bad or good , 
i truly believe that before that we have to address the racial issues in the united states , before we can go anywhere . 
a friend of mine traveled to balise and , into honduras . 
i think , we 're supposed to hang up . 
it was n't the matter of wealth , 
it was the matter that they were not wealthy , that made them equal . 
i 'll talk to you later , 
thank you . 
could you tell me what you think contributes most to air pollution ? 
it 's hard to say . 
while it 's certainly the case that things like automobiles and factories pollute a lot if you look at how much pollution is kicked up by an active volcano it 's certainly less than clear that anything man can do in this sort of scale of things has much effect at all . 
what do you think ? 
you talked about volcanos . 
i think probably the greatest cause is vehicles , especially around cities . 
do you live right in the city itself ? 
i 'm more out in the suburbs , 
but i certainly work near a city . 
how about you ? 
i live in a rural area . 
it 's mainly farms and no heavy industry . 
i live in rhode island . 
i see . 
and , it 's in the north , 
i live up in the northeast corner 
and attleboro sits just over the line , where t i 's plant is , 
but there is n't a lot of heavy industry . 
there 's the freeways 
it depends which way the wind 's blowing from boston , cause we 're forty miles south of boston , 
so we 'll pick up that . 
we live about twenty miles away from the state airport 
and i notice that the fly patterns now of the jets are getting bigger , 
they 're swinging wider so that now they are coming over our homes . 
and , it seems like we 're catching all that residue . 
i 'm not sure if it 's kerosene or what that 's dropping . 
but , other than that we do n't have the emissions from the power plants . 
you mean from the coal . 
one of our biggest electrical plants in rhode island uses coal to generate electricity . 
there does n't seem to be much emission from them , 
but i 'm not sure about the rest of the country . 
i notice locally a major problem is kodak . 
it 's interesting 
because in order to keep with the e p a standards which tend to be what 's coming out of your smokestack , they do all their emissions at night . 
is that right ? . 
people get up in the morning in that neighborhood 
there must be some of the , larger plants up around one hundred twenty-eight . 
during the night seems like they 'd blow off their stacks from the warehouses , for powerhouses , 
and , they do that at night too , because , employees been complaining that the cars have been pitted , 
and spots all over them . 
so , you 're right , 
they could do something about that , i guess . 
that seems a little ridiculous . 
how are your lakes , 
they 've been getting cleaner . 
they have ? 
but 
i 'm not sure how much the water pollution is directly related to the air pollution , other than acid rain , 
acid rain , 
the stuff i 've read recently in technology review basically indicates that acid rain may be a little bit overstated . that a lot of the die off they 've seen in forests may not really be due to acid rain at all . 
i 'm not an expert . 
they were dumping lime . 
up here ? 
upstate new york somewhere , over huge areas , 
i have n't read that . 
and they thought that was more beneficial because some of it does soak in 
and some of it runs off right away in to the streams and rivers 
and some of the fish were supposedly making a comeback . 
i ca n't remember where 
i read that recently somewhere , 
and i ca n't remember where . 
but i thought it was up there . 
so , that 's interesting because new hampshire , and parts of vermont they showed pictures of extensive tree damage that they attributed to acid rain . 
you kind of think it 's something else then ? 
that 's what the environmentalists were claiming in this article . 
they did n't say what though , 
they did n't say what , 
they just said they thought acid rain 's contribution may be less than was previously suspected . that it may be other natural things at work . 
natural disease , 
so it 's less than clear . 
like i said , i do n't remember the article that well . 
but i do n't know , 
what do you think we can as individuals or as a group , do about air pollution ? . 
we can demand more efficient automobiles for one thing . 
i still think that 's , one of our major causes of pollutants . 
how we go about that it 's a little bit difficult . 
i think it 's up to individuals too , to ask automakers for less pollutant vehicles . 
i think you need a vehicle something like , nader 's raiders or , a a r p , which has a lot of members . if you can get those types of groups . 
do you really think that new vehicles though is a big problem . 
i remember reading an article that said it 's the older polluters , 
the twelve and fifteen year old cars contribute ninety percent , of the automobile pollution 
and the new cars is , hardly anything . 
they 're better , 
but how about all the trucks and buses that are out there . 
but does n't that just mean they 're out of tune . 
i 'm not really sure . 
fuel is one of their biggest costs . 
but diesel engines . 
diesel engines . 
they do generate a lot of soot 
but at least , that kind of particulate comes out of the air pretty quickly . 
we could also push for legislation for rapid transit systems . 
this country seems to be a little behind on that . 
on the other hand most people do n't use rapid transit because it 's so inconvenient . 
but only because we got used to single person , single car , driving . 
a lot of people do n't even like to carpool . 
that 'll help , air pollution , 
the united states and canada is , going into some types of agreements to limit what 's being given out by power plants , 
i guess canada 's quite concerned that we 're sending a lot of our stuff up there , 
so that 's helping . 
what do you think about a device , a meter right on a tail pipe 
and you pay the tax based on how much you polluted ? 
that 's an idea . 
do n't say that too loud though because every city and town will have a meter on your tail pipe generating revenue , 
it just means if you do n't pollute or you pollute very little you do n't have to pay any tax 
or you just buy one of these things 
maybe you could probably devise them so it slowly closed off your tail pipe 
and the less you pollute the longer the devise lasts 
and if you pollute a lot then it closed off your tail pipe 
and you could n't start your car anymore . 
that 's an interesting concept . 
is that your idea ? 
i guess the difficulty would be that somebody could obviously just take it right off the tail pipe again 
so you probably would have to build it right into the muffler or something . 
it could be installed like a catalytic converter . 
i guess you could take those off too 
but mufflers would be a little more obvious if you took that off . 
not unless it was built into every muffler . 
but if you was talking about something which was more or less universal that busses and any kind of vehicle , had to pay a pollution tax this would penalize the heavy polluters and not penalize the light polluters , 
that 's quite a concept . 
you should pursue that or patent it . 
patent it , 
that 's a good idea . 
if you could come up with a device that 's the thing . 
but it should n't be too hard to do something like that . 
but that 's a thought . 
you 're right 
and that will solve a lot of problems . 
i do n't know if you approached the automobile industry if they would be too keen on installing something like that . 
you might generate some interest in it . 
the automobile regulatory agencies or something . 
but that 's a good idea . 
other than that i 'm not sure what individuals can do other than like i said get involved through a group or an organization . 
what do you like to cook ? 
i like to cook foods i like to eat . 
i like to eat italian food best . 
and i find that that 's pretty easy to cook because a lot of it is one dish meals , type things and , they 're kind of convenient . 
that would be good for a dinner party , to cook that because you do n't have to deal with eight different things , coming out at once . 
is that what you usually cook when you have a party . 
i usually have parties that are smaller groups . 
i 've never had a real big dinner party except at traditional holidays like thanksgiving and such . 
and so 
i guess i usually do . 
i like to cook heavy sauces , and noodles and pasta and such . 
that sounds good . 
fattening . 
how about you , 
what do you like to cook ? 
it 's funny that we 're talking about this , 
we just had a dinner party 
our senior pastor and his wife came over . 
and i catered to their diet is the only thing , though , 
so it was n't something i really wanted to make . 
i really wanted to make red beans and rice with sausage , 
because i 'm from new orleans originally . 
and i was going to make that , red beans and rice with those cajun sausage and french bread with garlic butter and stuff , 
and there 's salad 
and then for desert i really wanted to make just brownies 
or french donuts would have been good , 
but it 's real hard to make them . 
they do n't really come out like they do in new orleans , up here , 
i do n't know why . 
i do n't know if it 's me or the water or the recipe i have 
humidity or something . 
that 's what i want . 
that 's what i like to make is just real neat stuff like that 
kind of like the italian , 
it 's really good , 
but instead i catered to their diet 
so i made baked chicken in the crock pot 
and it was good and everything , 
it had all the vegetables in it , 
it . 
do you find yourself with all the cholesterol , and high fiber changing the way that you entertain ? 
i find it changing the way that i eat , but not the way i entertain , 
because i guess i feel like if they 're on a diet like that , i 'm going to honor that , 
another couple came over a couple weeks later 
what did i make that night . 
i made a roast , 
i ca n't believe this 
my husband broke the coffee pot i just bought yesterday . 
i ca n't believe that . 
when ricky and carrie came over we made a pot roast with rice and gravy and salad and the whole bit . 
and normally we do n't eat like that during the week because of the calories and the fat in it . 
but when we 're having guests , we just kind of say , just do it . 
and i made blueberry cobbler 
and we had extra crust with it , 
it was so fattening . 
that sounds good . 
but , i do n't think we gained any weight from it 
every once in a while i think i feel the same way . 
a lot of women will turn down dessert if it 's too rich simply because they do n't want the extra calories , 
so i think dessert is the only thing that i kind of down play , sometimes . 
i made an apple pan downy when the pastor and his wife came over 
and she did n't eat it . 
but i did bake apples so that it would be , not brownies . 
i figured there was less calories in apple pan downy than in fudge brownies . 
so i 've read a good brownie recipe . 
that 's good . 
anyway , so i guess that 's about what i did when i entertained . 
so , do you have anything else you want to say about it ? 
nothing comes to mind right off , 
so i guess not . 
it was nice talking to you . 
you too . 
i would like to talk about , just briefly what happened over there in saudi arabia in the political context . 
i think it 's refreshing to see the support that the president got from the american people . 
i read an interesting article in the paper that discussed that , 
seemed that every other time a president tried to get support for an action like president carter and his thing with the hostage crisis , he always did it through rhetoric . 
and this time president bush did it through action 
and he drove policy by the course he took and almost forced public support , 
or he left almost no alternative . 
that 's right . 
and it was very interesting how he did it 
and i 'm an air force officer , 
so it was interesting for me , 
i have friends of mine from the air , 
i 'm an engineer and work in the rolm laboratory , 
this is a b fifty-two base where i work , 
so , we had about a thousand people gone from the base that went over there 
and they 're getting a tremendous amount of support out of it . 
that 's great , 
if you remember , the vote in the congress to authorize war , if necessary , was actually pretty close . 
it was . 
i do n't know the exact figure 
but i would imagine that because of how close the vote was almost certainly would have to be . 
just based on , the disparity of , democrats and republicans in congress he 'd think that it would have to have been . 
that 's right . 
this whole thing now with all the political cartoons on the democrats and how they 're in a sad way for ninety-two now in terms of the presidential election , anyway . 
especially the ones that came out and said come on guys , let 's talk about this little while longer . 
how many years are we going to wait 
and what do you do with the people that are over there in the mean time . 
no doubt . 
everyone was discussing whether we should wait longer , 
but , i know that there 's a lot of reasons to wait longer 
but i think we were genuinely concerned about their military capability 
and i think we over estimated it , 
but still , we were really , highly concerned about it 
i think so too . 
and , we were worried that they were getting dug in 
they were , 
and in fact they were so well dug in that when we sent our tanks around behind them they could n't get turned around in time . 
it 's true 
saddam thought he had the whole thing figured out to which way we were coming and what our doctrine was , 
had we done a frontal assault it probably would have worked more to his favor . 
that 's right , 
that 's true . 
that 's interesting , 
today the turks agreed to support the kurds , which is something they 've never done before 
interesting . 
the arabs all of a sudden are cheering for baker on his drive to reconcile relations with the israelis , 
baker is really not very much pro israel . 
and did you know john sununu is half arab ? 
i think i did hear that at one time a long time ago , 
because i used to live in massachusetts , 
in fact , when he was governor of new hampshire , i believe . 
new hampshire . 
i believe he was the only one of fifty governors that voted against some kind of resolution of support for israel a few years back . 
and now he is a conservative , 
but he is not a conservative that favors israel , 
and that concerns me greatly . 
i 'd certainly support israel in their policy in defending themselves and in their handling of their foreign policy , 
i support that . 
i think that is a positive thing for them after thousands of years , 
when they became a country they more or less decided they were n't going to take it anymore , 
they did n't have much choice , 
they could either fight or die . 
and so 
i lost my train of thought here . 
so , 
so i ca n't say that i 'm pro israel or anti israel . 
i 'd like to see them resolve something in that situation and get some stability in the region 
and looks that the joining of forces for this desert shield and desert storm thing ended up being a positive thing . 
it is a positive thing , 
however every time an organization such as the p l o says we 'll see if we can work with israel , then they get embarrassed every few months by documents that reveal that their ultimate purpose is to totally eliminate them . 
and so you basically have mutually exclusive interests , 
either israel is going to occupy the area , 
or the arabs are going to occupy the area 
and i 'm just not sure that there 's going to be any easy permanent solution . 
and i think that 's the problem the p l o has is that whenever one group of them decides that they 're going to negotiate , or they 're going to do something , they 're going to try to make some peace the end result is that there so many factions of them , some more violent than others , some with a certain agenda different than the others , or they split , 
they end up becoming divisive themselves . 
it 's interesting , 
it is . 
i 'm looking forward to seeing what happens over there in the next couple of months , 
i commend israel for their restraint in not responding to the scud attacks . 
i know , 
that 's absolutely unprecedented 
that was , an incredible foreign policy coup on the part of the president and the state department . 
and that 's never happened before , 
and i do n't know if it will ever happen again 
may not . 
it 's been fun , 
i enjoyed talking with you . 
i guess maybe the computer will pair us up together another time . 
you never know . 
what are your music interests ? 
just about any kind of music except acid rock , 
i do n't care , for acid rock , 
me , too . 
but i grew up with country and western , 
i did , too , 
but just about any kind of music . 
i even like classical music . 
i 'm pretty diversified , too . 
i do n't like acid rock either . 
i grew up in a small town 
so we only had one radio station 
so it was country music , 
i grew up with hank snow , and lefty frizzell and hank williams and all of those old country and western songs . 
you 're older than i am . 
did you happen to see last night the special on channel two with james galway ? 
we do n't get channel two . 
our cable does n't , 
i wish we got that , 
that is fabulous . 
was it ? 
we do n't get channel two . 
when he played danny boy it just almost brought , tears to your eyes , because he can make that flute sing . 
and it was tremendous . 
actually , i did , 
i played flute for , almost ten years 
so , i appreciate his too , 
he 's from ireland is n't he ? 
and it was mostly all irish tunes , 
they had a band with him that had a harpist and another flute and then a guy that played the bagpipes plus the tin whistle , and a couple of violins and , uh , drum , 
and they played all the irish jigs and so forth , 
it was just fabulous . 
he is really good . 
i come from a musical background , 
so i 've played flute and piano , 
so , i have a big appreciation for music , up to a point . 
i 'm getting now to the age where i do n't like much of the new stuff that 's coming out , 
my husband says i 'm getting old . 
i especially like instrumentals . 
do you ? 
i love to just lay back on the couch and turn a good instrumental on and just close my eyes and listen . 
that 's nice to do , that is . 
i 'm getting well versed in kiddy music . 
i 've never played an instrument in my life , 
i 've always wanted too , 
i 've always wished my parents had forced me to learn the piano or something , 
but but i 'd just love to be able to go to a party or something and sit down at the piano and bang out music 
i was one of the forced ones . 
i could never do that . 
i was never that brave 
but . 
i guess the closest i 've ever come to participating in music is singing in the choir . 
i 've done that at church too . 
i have n't done that in a long time . 
so , let 's see 
what kind of music do you not like ? 
like i say the acid rock , 
an i do n't care for rap music either . 
that 's not music , 
that is not , 
i do n't know what that is , 
but that 's not music . 
if i ca n't understand the words i do n't want to listen to it . 
it 's not music , 
it 's just , talking in a beat , 
it 's not exciting at all 
it does n't give you relaxation , 
you ca n't dance to it , 
you ca n't do anything to it . 
and i like orchestra music too . 
like the , boston pops or anything . 
have you ever been to the dallas symphony ? 
have you ? 
are they good ? 
they 're good . 
are they ? 
i have , never been . 
and we went and saw les miserables 
the music in that was fantastic . 
i heard that was hard to get tickets to . 
i ca n't remember how far in advance we reserved , tickets 
but it was out at the state fair music hall 
and it was well worth the price . 
was it ? 
i bet it was , 
i really bet it was . 
do you go see a lot of musicals ? 
just ever so often a real good one like that one 
that would be nice . 
i went and saw sugar babies , 
that was good , 
that had good music in it . 
was it ? 
i do n't know what that 's about . 
what 's that not real old dancer , 
i ca n't think of her name . 
i got it right on the tip of my tongue and ca n't say it , 
helen something . 
i know who you 're talking about , 
real long legs , and dark hair . 
she 's got black hair , 
i know who you 're talking about . 
i ca n't think ever her name either . 
i ca n't think of it . 
i remember that being here a few years ago . 
the last country music , 
my parents still really like country , music 
and they like the oak ridge boys and the statler brothers , 
the blackwoods . 
my husband likes country music real well 
and he likes some of the new groups like shenandoah , 
and 
he really likes shenandoah . 
alabama . 
alabama , 
i think they 're a bit over exposed . 
i get tired of every other song being alabama on the , radio . 
either alabama or hank williams , junior . 
i 've never cared for hank , williams , junior . 
i never have either , 
and i never have figured out how he won entertainer of the year for about , three or four years in a row . 
we watch those award shows too , 
we enjoy watching the country and the grammies and stuff 
but i just do n't care for him , 
i just never have . 
i guess probably my favorite all time country and western song or singer is probably eddy arnold . 
is it ? 
i think , i know who that is , 
i think my parents have , some of his records . 
but i had some , , 
i sold some of them , 
i had about a hundred and fifty old seventy-eight r p m records of country and western , songs , 
smiley burnette , 
i do n't know if you were old enough to remember him . 
i 've heard the name . 
he played in the old western movies . 
he was the sidekick of gene autry i believe 
i think his name in the movie was froggy 
i 've never seen a gene autry movie , 
had a real raspy voice , 
i never have . 
those go back quite a way . 
i took them up here to collectors records and was able to get a little money for them 
but my mother and dad use to own a restaurant , 
it 's hard , 
and they had a nickelodeon , of course , in the restaurant , 
and when they would come and change the records the guy would give her the old records 
that 's neat . 
that would be great if they were n't too worn out , at the time . 
of course , there 's not a whole lot of market for seventy-eight r p m records . 
is there not ? 
you 'd think there would be . 
the problem is most of the record players now will not play them because , you have to have that particular kind of needle 
that 's true . 
and they , just wo n't play on a modern day phonograph . 
that 's a shame 
because we go to antique stores a lot 
and you see seventy-eights , a lot at record stores , 
i 'm sure you could find old players for them 
but that would cost a fortune , if you could find them that worked . 
of course , they just do n't have the quality of records nowadays either because , you get that scratchy sound . 
those things were big and thick were n't they ? 
you could kill somebody with them . 
warped real easy . 
go out and buy one now and they 're just so thin and , flimsy 
and they 're not meant to last , at all , 
neither are tapes . 
we buy cassette tapes , 
and machines will eat them , 
and so , the best bet , these days are compact disk , 
those things are practically indestructible . 
back then when i was a kid , there was n't that much t v , 
so that 's all you had to listen to was the , radio , 
radio . 
that 's just what you had , 
i think it was better back then to , 
there 's too much t v now 
and the radio is more exciting , really , than television , 
it just did n't vegetate your mind like television does . 
i remember mother and dad always turned on the grand ole opera . 
was it on the radio every week ? 
what day was that on , 
can you recall . 
seems like it was on a friday , 
what do you think about the idea of having volunteer service for everyone ? 
i think that really it would n't hurt most of the young people of the country to have to go and do voluntary service . 
and there have been so many people that have done it 
and i 've talked with several 
and i think they 've gotten a lot out of it . 
are you doing any kind of volunteer work now ? 
not right now , 
but i have done red cross work 
and i 've taught c p r training 
when would people do it , 
when they finished high school ? 
i think probably as soon as they finished high school it would be ideal , because a lot of times , if they go straight into college i think they 're going in too quick 
in fact i was n't very mature when i left high school 
and i think there 's a real challenge there . 
there 's also this issue of , whether you 're really ready , 
and i think it gives a different perspective . 
i think if you 've been out of school a year , year and a half , before you start to college , you appreciate college more , than someone that just goes right straight into college . 
the only complication is how do you fund something like this ? 
a lot of parents fund their children . 
there are some groups that have their children go away for a year . 
even the religious organizations . 
and the parents fund them for the whole year , year and a half that they 're gone . 
it 's interesting . 
it gets them away from home and gets them to do something useful , 
we were doing some investigating colleges 
and said the kids are much more interested today in trying to find a job , study something that will give them a job as opposed to 
if there was mandatory , you could choose the option of either a mandatory military service or voluntary , 
do you think that would be reasonable ? 
i think it would . 
in israel , even the women are required to be in the military for a certain period of time . 
i was in the military , 
and i personally feel if they have the draft , that they should draft women as quickly as they do the men . 
what would you have them do ? 
there 's a lot of unemployment right now . 
what would you have these people do if they were brought in ? 
what , 
into the service ? 
say that it was mandatory . 
i do n't know if you remember about the w p a , 
my father was in the c c c . 
he was in that ? 
it 's not the best thing in the world , 
but it gave them something to do . 
it seems that there 's some things like the programs . 
or go into the more depressed areas and help repair the houses . 
in fact , we helped with help to help humanities , 
and that was a good experience , 
but you take the kids out 
it would be a good idea . 
we 've been doing this three or four minutes . 
do you have any other further comments ? 
not really . 
it was good talking to you , betty . 
i 'll talk to you later . 
have a good night . 
where to start . 
i have n't had that much , of course 
i just heard , 
but i have n't had that much time to think about it , either . 
i guess the biggest thing i find is the financial aspects particularly , the ability of people to access your financial records or your credit rating almost at will . 
that 's true . 
i did n't think about that . 
and of course using your social security number , of course , permits people to do that 
and almost anything you do now , a social security number is required . 
and of course there 's another aspect of this , too in terms of invasion of privacy 
i just thought about it , 
being a professional of course , you probably belong to one or more professional organizations , 
and that is that some of the organizations sell their mailing lists which i think is an invasion of privacy . 
i agree . 
i get some of these things in the mail that i wonder , where in the world did they get my address or where did they get my name . 
it 's funny because i was in the process of filling one out when i decided i would make this phone call , 
but i have n't got to the end of it yet where it asks all that salary information and everything , 
but , when you have to send that back in the mail with your name on it , your salary information , i just have a real hard time doing that , 
and they ask you what type of household items do you own , like stereos and t v -s and v c r -s 
and you hate to send something off with your name and address and what types of things do you own and what kind of money do you make 
and you wonder , who 's going to get ahold of this and think that 's a nice place to go rob . 
and not only that , 
it opens you to phone solicitations 
i got one tonight about six thirty when i sat down to eat dinner , 
carpet cleaning . 
i 've had them for carpet cleaning , 
i 've had them of course , for real estate investments 
you get send in this particular card 
and you get a free trip or something along those lines . 
and so that bothers me because of course , i enjoy being at home and i do not enjoy getting called by strangers soliciting . 
and i know that a lot of these , of course , are random phone calls 
they just start going through the phone book or going through a series of numbers , 
but some of them are sold , 
there is one particular group to which i belong 
and for some , reason they have three different names for me . 
the address is the same 
my office address . 
but they have one under my first name , james . 
they have one under my first name and middle initial , 
then they have a third one under just my two initials . 
and i get mail here at home under each of those names . 
so i know that they have sold their mailing list . 
and i think those two things bother me more than anything else as far as an invasion of privacy . 
i think i dislike the phone number part the worst . 
it 's one thing to get junk mail because you can just put it right in the trash , 
but it 's the phone calls , 
and usually when they call you , it 's going to be right when you sit down to dinner because they pretty much know that you 're at work all day 
and they call you right when you 've just gotten home from work . 
the last thing you want is a phone call unless it 's something halfway enjoyable , 
but if it 's a salesperson , it 's just something you do n't want to have to mess with . 
and i 've gotten a lot of them lately , 
sometimes i come home from work 
and there 's a lot of hang ups on my answering machine 
and i 'm just assuming it 's probably a salesman that called during the day 
and , i was n't home , 
and they 'll probably call me up and call me back and bother me when i sit down to dinner later on , 
but i find that very annoying . the mail stuff , 
it 's kind of irritating , 
but it 's not nearly as obnoxious as the phone calls . 
even if friends call it irritates me . 
actually during that period of time usually from six o'clock or six thirty , whenever i get home , until eight or so , i will shut off the phone 
and my daughter gets irate , when i do that because she 's a teenager 
so she 'll why are you cutting off the phone , 
i might get an important phone call , 
so i guess those three things are the most irritating to me . 
i 'm single , 
but when i come home from work , there 's times i need to pay bills , 
i need to balance my checking account , 
i need to do all kinds of different things like that , 
and even though it 's friends calling , sometimes you just feel like , this is my quiet time , 
i need to get things done 
and the phone ringing bothers me , 
but that 's where answering machines are nice , because if it 's really important they 'll leave a message 
and i can call them back . 
that 's right . 
but at work i have so many phone calls from customers calling in , 
sometimes i just want to get away from the phone ringing because it really does annoy me . 
we have to do a lot of troubleshooting when the programmers have installed a new system , 
and phone rings like crazy 
and you come home 
and the last thing you want to do is have to answer the phone . 
and if it 's some salesman , that just makes it even that much worse . 
i get to where i turn the answering machine on and just let it pick up the phone , 
now we have a voice mail system at the office . 
what i have done is , i have forwarded my home phone to the answering service at the office so that i do not have to have a ring at all . if i want to do that . 
a ring at all . 
that 's an idea . 
or i will just let the phone ring three or four times and know that it will forward to the office . 
and so it makes it convenient . 
on our system , and on most systems you can just route it directly to the answering service . 
ours is that way , too . 
and when i want to be not bothered during the day , that 's exactly what i do . 
yours is probably the same as ours . 
it 's tigon 
is n't tigon part of g t e or vice versa or something like that . 
tigon is part of g t e . 
that 's it , 
that g t e had purchased tigon 
that 's what we have . 
except we call it aspen . 
aspen ? 
i could n't remember in tigon had purchased g t e -s phone mail services or if g t e had purchased tigon . 
i knew there was some type of a tie in there . 
g t e purchased tigon . 
and so , we had been using the aspen service before they purchased tigon 
so i imagine we will be shifting over to that service in a while . as soon as we determine what we 're going to do with contel after we bought contel . 
dana , i think we have probably conversed long enough . 
i think we did , 
that 's good . 
i did n't think we could go too far on this privacy thing , 
but i guess it 's close enough . 
thank you for calling . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
good talking to you , jim . 
take care . 
you want to start ? 
i guess i would first identify myself as middle aged 
and therefore , having seen the last generation , i guess it gives me a perspective on that . 
i , am quite positive on the things that i have seen happen recently relative to women both in society and in the work place , 
there 's no doubt about the fact that when i was first graduated from college the impression was that a woman 's career would consist of a childbearing years and perhaps a return to the office , but not necessarily . 
now i think the change that i 've seen as much as anything is one where couples are more carefully planning their intention on how to both share homemaking duties and also how women will have their children and then deliberately sort of plan how they go back to the work place . 
and i guess that 's a significant change that i 've both participated in and noticed . 
i agree , 
the equality of the roles now between the sexes has been dramatically demonstrated with this war , especially compared with the vietnam war 
and you see women going off to wars as well as men . 
i have wondered why they allowed , or let both the father and mother go , 
and the children are left without either parent . 
to me that 's kind of a drawback . 
but i guess it 's a price you pay . 
and i also wonder about the children that are being brought up in the day care centers . 
wonder about them in what way ? 
from what i understand there 's been studies that these children are more rebellious . 
they term it as more creative . 
but that they are much more contentious . 
i have not , to be honest , had much experience , with children in that situation . 
i guess one knows one 's own storly 
so i guess my experience is just with what we did 
and so they did n't really go through the child care route . 
they were able to be home together . 
and we never actually experienced that . 
in terms of changes relative to women in the work place and the potential changes over the next generation or so , i guess i anticipate an increasing equality greater presence of women in management roles 
i do n't know whether there will be an increased amount of surrogacy that we see . 
i just do n't know . 
what do you mean ? 
deliberate childbirth by surrogate mother . 
sort of rent-a-mom , 
not to be crass about it , but whether one might conceive of the possibility that there might be a kind of a professional mother , person . for instance , 
that 's strange . 
a nanny , sort of ? 
and i could envision a society where that would happen and make an interesting story or whatever . 
i do n't think i have a philosophical problem with that . 
in fact , i think it sort of raises nurturing and being a mother to what it ought to be which is a respected profession . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
i do n't have other than a reading and male perspective on the biological urges involved relative to being a mother or not . 
my sense is that i have very much an interest and had one in being a parent . 
i do n't know that i felt myself necessarily encumbered with the necessity to have heirs . 
i do n't have boys , 
that did n't bother me , 
never has . 
vision more women deliberately raising children either in surrogacy or as a professional nanny as you put it . 
maybe we 'll see a growth in that where someone makes a career out of taking care of five or six children as opposed to day care . 
it would be a sort of day care , 
but it would be more of a family setting . 
i know that there are young people , characterized as being half my age in my work place , who are both of them earning rather decent professional salaries who probably would consider paying a woman eight or nine or ten thousand dollars a year to take care of their child , 
to come in and live with them ? 
i could easily envision that . 
to come in and live with them ? 
or to put their child into a home setting , where they would leave at eight in the morning and drop a two year old off in a home where you knew there were going to be four other kids 
and you were paying for really high quality care . 
i have acquaintances of mine where i know that they are paying figures on the order of what i quoted to someone , because that 's the experience they want 
and i would imagine if there are more of people like that with an opportunity that 's a possibility of a change that we could see in the next few years . 
and then you might have more control over the morals that they would be taught rather than in a classroom or a day care center . 
i know the day care centers are not cheap either . 
i have n't ever really looked at them . 
are you aware at all , of what they cost ? 
i know several single mothers who absolutely ca n't afford it . 
they have to go with a baby-sitter more or less . 
but i think it 's about sixty dollars a week for two children if i 'm not mistaken . 
and you have to pay that whether you 're on vacation and taking care of the children or if the children are at home , sick . 
that is just a rate that you have to pay 
what do you envision for the next twenty years as far as women in american society ? 
i think , i really do n't have a vision . 
that 's okay , too . 
i think that they will be more in the work place because the door 's open . 
and it 's just human nature to walk through an open door . 
and i would be glad to see that . 
i hope i do n't see a lot more single moms , 
but , it seems in my experience i 'm running across single women all the time . 
i 'm noticing that , too , 
and i notice a terming emerging called solo parents , 
and that is a little troublesome . because the pressures on them are , rather formidable . 
it 's awful . 
and maybe that 's a change we 'll see . 
maybe the possibility of women who deliberately say , we 'll let the man take care of the children perhaps , in the event of a separation or whatever . 
i think we 've done it . 
i think we 're about done . 
thank you very much . 
it 's been interesting . 
you take care . 
what do you think about the idea of kids having to do public service work for a year ? 
i think it 's a pretty good idea . 
i think they should either do that , or afford some time to the military , or helping elderly people . 
i think that we have a bunch of elderly folks in the country that could use some help 
and i think that before we expend all our young talent overseas and helping other countries we ought to perhaps give a little bit of our help to our own folks at home 
and i 'm not sure that that 's not a bad idea 
that 's true . 
i think it teaches kids how to grow . 
how about yourself ? 
i agree with you . 
the parents kind of pushed them to join the boy scouts or girl scouts 
and they did , do a lot of public service activities , 
parents are n't encouraging their kids to do things like that . 
that 's really great . 
i really think that both the boy scouts and girl scouts is two excellent organizations . 
they are 
kids seem like when they get ten or twelve years old they fall out of that , 
they do . 
and they do n't follow it at all . 
there are very few scouts go on , and become eagle scouts . 
and i do n't know what the high rank is for the gals 
senior . 
senior , 
once they get into junior high it just , not done anymore . 
they lose interest . 
and then when they young adults , there 's even less interest there . 
me . 
grab , grab , grab , walk out . 
you 're absolutely right . 
i think it 's really a good thing . 
of course , there 's third world countries that can use all kind of help . 
but there 's a lot that can be done right here in this country , too . 
but i think , we ought to start right here at home . 
i 'm not so sure that helping overseas would be such a hot idea for , a lot of young people . 
i think that we need to really address what we 've done here 
and then perhaps even a six month tour overseas that gives them much broader outlook . 
it 's been really good . 
we talked about this for a few minutes , 
and hopefully , we 'll have other good topic maybe another call someday , 
but i do n't really have too much more to say on this topic , i guess . 
i agree with you . 
i guess we both agree that it 's a good thing , that they should do sometime . 
you take care , 
and , enjoy the day . 
you , too . 
you , too . 
thank you , ma'am . 
how do you usually keep up with current events ? 
normally i listen to c n n or headline news about an , hour a day , 
and then i supplement that with radio news from my car radio and from a news magazine once a week , and a newspaper if i have time . 
do you , 
i do n't usually have time to read the newspaper everyday , 
so i try to listen to the radio in the morning and try to catch one of the morning talk shows , 
and then i usually end up flipping through c n n and headline news during the evening . 
i always try to read the sunday paper just because it usually gives a summary of the week 's hot events . 
so , i try to catch that , if nothing else . 
that 's true , 
are you pleased with the news coverage that you 're receiving ? 
we live in a kind of small town , 
but i think we get excellent local coverage , 
and i like the national news that we see , 
we watch n b c 
and i think they do a real good job . 
so , i 've been real pleased with the quality of the news we get , 
how about you ? 
on the whole , i 'm pleased when i have an opportunity to hear just the facts . 
i would much prefer that they keep their analysis to themselves . since i do n't necessarily agree with it or it tends to be extraordinarily trite . 
i think i 'm fed up with trite . 
there seems to be more and more of it , 
and i understand the void that comes naturally with both radio presentations and television presentations 
and as expensive as they are to produce , they certainly do n't want any dead airspace . 
but i think there 's enough news out there that they could pass on more factual information to us , 
and like you said , save the commentaries because i 'm going to listen to the news and draw my own opinions . 
i do n't really need their help to do that . 
we 're certainly in agreement there . 
i do n't think radio is as bad to do that as t v is . 
radio seems to have a full platter or full plate of different things that they need to get done . 
maybe they 're a little more efficient , or have more to do over that same time frame . 
i do n't know which that answer is . 
i think my greatest complaint about news programs is programs like sixty minutes . 
do you watch that ? 
i used to , 
but i do n't anymore , maybe once or twice a year . 
i used to watch sixty minutes until they did two programs that i knew both the people and the incidences , 
and i knew that they had presented an extremely slanted viewpoint , that was , in my estimate , nowhere near truth but was much better for ratings . 
and ever since that time i just do n't watch . 
so , i guess we have the same reaction whether we came about it from the same place or not . 
i had heard a couple of people that i had talked to about certain programs say that they had read other things besides what sixty minutes presented and that they did n't present it nearly the same way as the news articles or whatever they had already been familiar with . 
so , i started questioning just how bias they really were , 
i do n't know how old you are , 
but it seems to me like the last newscaster that presented news in just the nice simple factual way that i wanted to hear was walter cronkite . 
so , i do n't know if you 're familiar with him or not . 
not really , 
in the last few years just his kind of informal segments i 've seen 
but i never got to see his actual nightly news . 
i did grow up with david brinkley . 
brinkley was sort of trying to be in the mold , of cronkite 
and he did a pretty good job . 
the huntley , brinkley report was quite excellent , over the years . 
we used to watch him and john chancellor . 
and i always liked david brinkley 
, and i used to enjoy john chancellor 's style of reporting , 
but on the nightly news , now , he goes into his commentary 
and that 's where i get into the problem with him . 
i frequently disagree with his commentaries , 
once they 've reported the facts , 
all they can offer is an opinion anymore . 
what did you think of the news coverage of the war ? 
i almost felt like it was too much . 
i found myself restricting my viewing to a couple of hours a day , one in the morning and one in the evening . 
i spent a number of years in the service as an intelligence analyst , 
and i do n't need their fill-ins . 
did that help you understand a lot what was going on 
your prior experience with the military did , 
but i think it helps me everyday in trying to review the state that the world is in and try to guess where we 're going . 
i wondered if it would help you sometimes fill in the gaps or recognize discrepancies that people like myself might not pick up on . 
i think my background is probably what absolutely turned me off with sixty minutes . 
what weekly magazine do you look at , 
i like u s news and world report . 
at one time or another i 've taken them all for a year . 
i believe in giving anything a chance . 
but i keep coming back to that one , 
so , that 's kind of my favorite . 
does that give a pretty good overview of everything 
or does it give little encapsulated reports and then a few big stories ? 
it 's primarily a few big stories and then lots of high-level reports . 
here 's what went on in asia over the past week , 
and there 's maybe a page of that , little brief paragraphs , unless that was the focus of their main stories . 
that sounds good 
if you were short on time , you could get a summary real quick . 
it too is one 
in the interest of efficiency we all have to find ways , 
and i do most of my reading in the bathroom . 
and it 's one of those that i can read either an article or a couple of pages of those brief excerpts in the time frame that i 'm going to spend in there . 
and it just seems to fit nicely , so that i can get it read in about three days . 
we 're working on a newsweek , 
for the last couple of months we got an introductory subscription , 
so , we decided to try it because prior to that all we got were things like glamour or sports illustrated . 
so , we decided to try to bring one in that was a little bit better for us . 
to broaden your horizons , make you think about different things anyway . 
it ca n't hurt , . 
anytime that we stop and think it ca n't hurt . 
i enjoy reading t news , 
i try to catch it because it 's another example , 
they just show you the words and the facts 
and they do n't offer any commentary , 
and it gives me a quick chance to be caught up during the day . 
because we do n't listen to the radio at work at all . 
so , i do n't like to go the whole day without hearing anything . 
i 'm with you , 
i have to check t news every day . 
it 's my noontime dose of facts . 
and the other thing we have that i like to check sometimes is talking fingers , 
do you have that ? 
you have different telephone numbers that you can dial , 
and then you dial in an access code 
and depending on what topic you called in to hear about whether it was the news or the weather or a soap opera update , it will give you updated information . 
that can give you current news updates , current weather updates , things like that 
and it 's offered through the local phone company free of charge . 
so , that 's , an interesting alternative occasionally that i like to use . 
it does sound very interesting , 
it really is nice because it gives you a wide variety of things you can call and find out about . 
maybe our phone company out here will get around to , offering something like that . 
so , that is something you might keep your eyes open for , 
i think it 's catching on throughout the country . 
who 's your favorite team ? 
who do you think ? 
the dallas cowboys . 
the dallas cowgirls . 
they did have a fairly decent year finally this year . 
at least they 're coming around . 
they 're going to get better . 
. 
i think once jimmy johnson gets his system established they 'll do all right . 
as long as troy aikman does n't get hurt again . 
that kind of killed them at the end of the season last year . 
i do n't even know who your favorite team is , actually . 
i 'm a viking fan . 
i think i did know that , 
i just forgot . 
and they have n't been doing too hot , 
has herschel walker done much for them ? 
in fact the cowboys got the best end of that deal . 
he was a good player . i guess , 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know , 
for a while there 
i 've never been over impressed with him . 
he 'd get past six or seven tackles and just keep spinning around and get on into the end zone . 
but i guess you never could really see him play , because with the cowboys , while he was with the team , the rest of the team was pretty poor 
so you could n't really tell if it was just him or the team 
and i always just assumed that he was too good for the rest of the team . 
but , i do n't know . 
is it sammy smith , 
or is it , emmett smith . 
emmett smith , 
emmett smith . 
he 's been doing real good . 
i 'm pretty impressed with him so far . 
did he actually play in the pro bowl . 
i remember he was a backup 
and then somebody got injured 
and he was supposed to go . 
i 'm not sure . 
i have n't been keeping up with football , 
in the fall i can go on and on about football , 
but since it 's kind of off season , it 's kind of hard to think back about all that . 
there 's mike minnesota vikings , used to be the general manager starting the world football league . 
i ca n't even think of the guy 's name , either , the coach of the vikings . 
i have no idea . 
jerry burns . 
no earthly idea . 
he was going to keep him as the coach somehow , 
but i do n't know , 
i 'd like to see the vikings get revamped somehow . 
how did they end up this year ? 
did they make it to the play-offs at all ? 
they started out really bad , 
they went one and six , 
and then they won five or six in a row . 
so they were in a shot to make the play-offs 
and they screwed up the last couple of games . 
kind of like the cowboys . 
except i think the cowboys are on the upswing . 
i do n't know about the vikings . 
just had n't heard much about them lately . 
in fact they were doing better than the cowboys , 
and the cowboys came on strong at the end of the season , 
and the cardinals got killed by the cowboys , 
the cardinals , 
i do n't know . 
i think the cowboys probably have a better team . 
at the end of the season , the kind of got messed up with aikman getting hurt , because laufenberg just could n't ever really get it together at all . 
of course , he sat along the sidelines all season , 
he never really got in a game , never did a whole lot . 
do n't made any excuses for him . 
i 'm just saying i should n't blast him like that , say , laufenberg got out there and blew it for them , 
he did n't get to see much action . 
but , too bad . 
because he had a shot and did n't look too good 
and so , no one 's going to have much faith in him any more . 
in fact , i think they 're getting a different guy for a backup quarterback . 
i have n't kept up with it lately , 
but i remember reading something a few months ago about them signing somebody else on , or trying to go after somebody or trade for somebody , 
but it was n't anybody i 'd really heard of . 
but i heard on the radio this morning , or yesterday morning , that aikman 's back in practicing , doing real , real well . 
who is it , 
michael irvin 
he said that aikman was hitting him right on the numbers every time . 
so , sounds like he 's going to be all right for next season . 
it was his shoulder that he had the problems with ? 
i do n't know . 
i think it was . 
i think it was his shoulder he had surgery on . 
but they 're trying to keep him , from reinjuring anything , 
but . 
but i got my thirty day notice yesterday . 
thirty day notice for what ? 
i 'm done , where i work . 
i guess we ca n't talk much more about that , 
but i just thought i 'd throw that in there . 
what . 
maybe i 'll call you back after the recording is finished . 
actually i think we have talked about football for five minutes . 
i ca n't remember . 
i 've always ran out of time ever since i 've done this . 
i usually have , too . 
they always say you 've talked your ten minute limit . 
i 've done that once or twice . 
i did n't look at the clock when we started talking , 
so i guess we should talk about football a little bit longer just to be sure we got five minutes in . 
make sure we get our cash flow . 
other than the vikings , who do you like ? 
actually , when i was younger , i was a cardinal fan , too . 
remember jim hart ? 
jim hart was playing . 
terry metcalf was on the cardinals . 
this was a long time ago . 
that 's about it , 
i was always a viking fan . 
i think i was into the cardinals for a little bit 
back when they were in saint louis ? 
of course . 
since they 've been to phoenix they have n't been all that impressive , i guess . 
i guess i 've always been a cowboy fan . 
other than that when you grow up in a city that has one of the greatest football teams until the last few years , you kind of tend to get caught up in it . 
the cowboys were america 's football team , 
there 's no question about that , 
it was really exciting , growing up when the cowboys were really big . 
because my parents would always have season tickets , 
and they 'd go to all the games , 
and the hype were just unbelievable . 
i guess probably since about eighty-four , about eighty-five was when they started kind of going downhill really , 
but i 'm just used to always growing up and hearing cowboys , cowboys , cowboys , and super bowl , and all this other stuff . 
i 'm not going to decide i do n't like them just because they 're having a few bad years . 
i think they 'll pull out of it , 
and they 'll wind up being good again . 
they 've got lot of really good young players that are going to , do pretty good , i think . 
but , they 're raising prices on their tickets . 
so they 're banking on doing good next season . 
again . 
what are they going up to , 
thirty bucks or something ? 
thirty , or thirty-two for really good tickets . 
they sectioned it out even more . 
first of all it was all one price . 
and then they sectioned it out to end zone and then everything else . 
and now they 're sectioning it off from one twenty yard line to the other one , 
just on the lower levels is the highest price , 
and then the next highest price is that same area but above it on the upper level , 
and then from the twenty to the ten yard line . 
and then they 're some sections kind of in the corner areas , 
and then the cheapest of course is going to be the direct end zones . 
but they have about four or five different prices now , that they 're structuring it with , 
but obviously they 're all going up more or less is what it 's going to do . 
so now the tickets even got lower than the lowest one last year . 
i 'm not sure , 
i 'm not positive , 
i did n't really think about that . 
that was real close to the good section but in the little bit cheaper . 
but , not that i 'll ever go . 
i had n't been to a cowboys game , 
last time i went to the cowboys game was during that n f l strike , or when they had the scab teams in there , 
and it was the dallas and washington redskins game . 
and i went because my dad can usually get a hold of some free tickets , because a lot of those doctors have season tickets , 
and if they 're not going to use them they 'll give them to somebody else . 
so i went with my dad to a game that one time . 
it was the scab teams , 
it was kind of different , i guess . 
and before that it 's been quite a few years . 
i 've been wanting to go to a game , 
i just never have gotten around to it . 
so maybe this year . 
that 's interesting , 
i almost lost our electricity here . 
there . 
did i reach the dallas area ? 
i beg your pardon ? 
did i reach the dallas area ? 
you 've reached dayton , ohio . 
dayton , ohio , 
i 'm from north carolina . 
you 're from north carolina . 
where in north carolina ? 
in raleigh . 
raleigh , 
so . my name is fernando . 
my name 's mary . 
fernando , glad to know you . 
how 'd you find out about this ? 
i was visiting my son down in dallas , 
he works for t i . 
but his wife has a contract with t i , 
and that 's how we learned about it , 
because i 'm down at n c state . 
and so i took a class , 
and he said , sign up and get some money and just talk for five minutes . 
so are you ready ? 
i 'm ready . 
let 's get started . 
what do you think we can do to solve the crime in america ? 
if i knew that i 'd be a very wealthy person . 
but what are the steps ? 
you have to see , 
the way i look at it , you have to think first of all why , 
or has crime increased , 
and if so , why has crime increased ? 
the problem is that what happens is that as you go from the country to a city , crime always increases ? 
because in the country , people still respect the property of other people . 
and the people in the country do n't want as much as the people in the city . 
what happens is all those that do n't have any money in the country move to the cities , 
and they rush to get the same thing . 
they say , why ca n't we have the same things that these other people have , 
and the thing that we can do is , we need money for drugs , 
and what we have to do is , we have to go get some stuff , steal it , and then just resell it . 
it 's easy , 
you said the magic word there . 
which one ? 
drugs . 
and that certainly is one reason why crime here has increased . 
that 's , the main reason i think everywhere 
because you have deaths . 
you have murders 
and you have people stealing other people 's stuff , 
a lot of it has to do with drugs . 
the thing is that it 's like you might be standing somewhere , 
and let 's say you 're driving out 
and you 're driving back home 
and it 's late at night . 
and you stop by one of these twenty-four hour gas stations joints . 
and somebody walks in there with a gun . 
they 're going to want the money , 
and you can tell by the people who are always caught , that these people are there to get money for drugs . 
they do n't want the money so they can do something else with it . 
they do n't want the money for food , 
that 's for sure . 
but something that many people do n't realize , is that you can go back as far as nineteen fifty-one and fifty-two and find that there were drug dealers at that time trying to influence the high school kids , 
because i 'm a retired educator . 
and , in fifty-one and fifty-two , the police came to the high school where i was and were telling us how to recognize when kids were on drugs , how to recognize the pushers outside the one entrance , that they were giving their drugs away in order to get the kids started , and so on , and so on . 
so it 's a problem that 's been around for over forty years , 
and we 're just really now , trying to figure out how to cope with the problem because it has grown so huge . 
it 's like , in nineteen eighty-eight , nineteen eighty-nine , the local , state , and federal governments spent the least amount of money on crime in america , 
it 's like , compared to , weapons or stuff like that you 're spending nothing on crime in the country itself . 
it 's like , you have other things , 
you have the aids 
we 're going to , try to solve the aids problem while , some people are getting killed here and there 
and another one of the problems is that the people who are the dealers , the big dealers in drugs , may be part of the power structure that 's keeping us from spending the money in that direction . 
but those people never get caught . 
that 's right , 
they 'll never get caught . 
their theory is that if i 'm surrounded , and i 'm going to be caught , i 'm going to try to find my way through , 
and they 're not going to take me alive . 
but i have such a big army outside of my place , that nobody can touch me . 
that 's right . 
of course i might be the leading drug dealer here , 
but you wo n't find me dealing in drugs , 
there 's no connection between me and the people that were caught . 
that 's right . 
that 's right , 
one person does n't know the other person down the line . 
but the guy at the very top , the one who 's really making the millions and the millions is the one who also many times is part of the power structure and had the political pull to keep the interest or the emphasis in some other direction , other than on the drug dealing , 
because it sure is monstrous in this country . 
i was at a party on saturday , 
and this guy comes over , 
he goes , how you doing , 
he started talking to me , 
and this guy was from jamaica . 
and he 's got his little brother selling drugs . 
and he goes , i just came up here to work , 
and i go , you did , 
you make very good money up here . 
he goes , i make , a lot of money , 
and in the movie good fellows . 
did you see it ? 
i only heard about it . 
in one part , the guy goes out of jail , 
and within two months , he has all his house payments gone everything paid , 
it 's like , those guys , at one point they had so much money that they did n't know what to do with it . 
even in our prison systems they 're finding that they 're having drugs smuggled into them . 
that was also in the movie . 
mary . 
been nice talking with you . 
we 've been talking for five minutes ? 
we 've been talking for a little bit . 
i appreciate the call . 
i enjoyed talking with you . 
same here . 
i was trying to get my children quiet for a minute . 
credit cards that 's an easy topic , 
is n't it . 
it is . 
it 's one we all hold dear and near , i 'm sure . 
i guess i 've had some good experience and some bad experience with them . 
most of mine 's been pretty good , although i guess i 'm like a lot of other people , now , 
i 'm trying to pay off my credit cards 
and , i 've done pretty good at it . 
i do fairly good until i go in the store and i see something i want not need , want . 
there is a big difference . 
there 's a big difference there . 
but most of mine that i use is strictly gasoline . 
i do that , 
i do that , 
like i said , the rest of them i 've been trying to pay off and get back on a cash basis , except for gas . 
it 's too easy to run into the gas station . 
it sure is especially when you work out of town and everything , that way . 
at least that 's for me . 
but 
i 've talked to some who 's really had some bad experience 
and i have n't yet , 
not bad . 
i 'm just shocked at the end of the month , to see what damage i have did , 
but , i try to keep it pretty reasonable . 
i 've been pretty lucky in that respect . 
like i say , i 've , been trying to not charge except for emergencies . 
but i have n't really had any bad problems with credit cards . 
they have wonderful features , 
they 're there when you need them like in emergencies , or whatever . 
and then they have bad drawbacks , too high interest , 
it 's awfully easy . 
it 's like paying twice . 
that 's true , 
that 's true , 
i did switch to one sponsored by the credit union , though . 
that seems to be a pretty low interest . 
compared to some of the other ones . 
and you do n't have an annual fee there , 
and that helps . 
we used to have several , 
but right now , we 're just more or less at american express , 
and that way we can go ahead and pay it off when it comes in . 
that 's one way to do it , because that forces you to pay for it instead of saying , i 'll just pay on it this month 
pay fifteen , 
i know , 
and when you pay fifteen dollars a month it sure takes a long time . 
takes a long time , 
that 's right . 
it sure does . 
of course it 's been going down for a number of years , 
but this is the last year you can take anything . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
and maybe we 'll get to talk again . 
how do you feel about it ? 
i do n't have any strong convictions about it , 
that 's for sure . 
i know i have n't done any peace corps service , 
and i do n't know anybody in my immediate family that has ever even thought about it . 
do you know anybody that 's been ? 
the only people i know that have done anything remotely like that are people that have gone to be missionaries , 
and that 's only because i went to baylor , 
and a lot of students from baylor go and serve as missionaries during the summer . 
but i think that 's a terrible idea . 
that 's like forcing someone to donate to a charity . 
and it 's nice to try to teach young people some , civil consciousness , 
it 's definitely up to the person , 
so , i 'd have to say that the people who do it , some feel it 's rewarding . 
i do n't know , 
but i do n't know how we got the subject . 
i do n't either . 
i have nothing to say about this . 
i do n't either . 
i almost hung up , because i thought , i do n't really have an opinion except for no , 
i think that 's dumb . 
how long you been in san antonio ? 
i 've been here for just almost four years . 
and i lived with dana in school . 
that 's how we know each other . 
and you were just up there then . 
last weekend . 
we went to six flags saturday . 
had a good old time . 
that 's good . 
back to the topic at hand . 
what other types of community service would they be talking about . 
the recording mentioned the peace corps . 
this is major long term commitment a year or six months , 
so you 're looking at the peace corps or sabbatical maybe , 
or i do n't know , 
i 'm all for donating my time to worthy causes , 
i do some volunteer work here and there , 
and every once in a while i 'll do a local big brother big sister thing . 
or i 'll go do a . 
but that time is minuscule compared to what , they were referring to . 
i could n't possibly commit a year or two of my life to go do something . 
they could n't cover my hourly rate . 
i could n't afford it . 
i have this thing against bugs , too . 
and seems to me like the peace corps , they send you someplace that there 's a lot of bugs . 
africa . 
have to live in a shack with no air conditioning and no medicine and no anything . 
i 'd probably catch a terrible disease and die . 
. i doubt that , 
but , you know how it is . 
it would have to be tough going somewhere you do n't know the culture , usually , i guess . 
i think that maybe that 's why some people do it is to see the other cultures and some of that . 
but to do that , 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know either . 
growing up , all i knew was you go to high school , you work , you go to college , you get out of college , and you get a good job and you work . 
and none of this , you go spend two years in the peace corps to broaden your horizons . 
. i know american express , 
i 'm working at american express now , 
after a certain amount of years of service , these employees can take off six months or something , for some type of sabbatical or something like that . 
and they 're allowed to take that time off and then come back where they left off . 
so , it is something that i think even the larger organizations will support . 
it 's really for the community to give back to the community type of thing . 
i do n't know , 
kind of like joining the military . 
in that respect a lot of people join the military to grow up and to decide what they want to do , 
and the peace corps or something like that is probably useful as that kind of a time . 
maybe a little bit in that perspective , 
and a lot of people have gone in the military when they 're in the college . 
sometimes it 's to help support college the money . 
others , people do n't know what they want to do . 
but as far as the peace corps . i suppose there 's a few people that have done it at that point in their lives . 
but i think a lot of it 's when people get older , they 'll do something like that . 
i 'd probably have a different perspective if i actually knew someone that had gone into the peace corps . 
but i do n't . 
i do n't . 
did n't mean to cut you off there . 
that 's okay . 
and none of my really close friends in college went off to be missionaries or anything . 
so i do n't really know anyone first hand that 's committed a chunk of their life to do service work . 
everybody i know has been , i 'm going to go get a good job and make some money and buy a nice car . 
or try to make a living . 
i do n't know anybody that 's done that either . 
it 's interesting we got this topic because i do n't know what i marked off to get this , 
i certainly did n't mark off anything to get this one . 
i ca n't imagine , 
and the switchboard 's been down for several days , 
and the last time i called it before it went down , i had this topic , 
and i did n't feel like talking about it , 
so i hung up , 
and i guess they keep you on the same topic until you actually talk to somebody about it . 
so you had the same one . 
. you 'll get it over with here . 
i know . 
how many times have you talked ? 
probably five or six . 
not a whole lot . 
i 've done maybe four or five . 
did dana sign you up for this ? 
she just sent me the information out . 
i got a hold of it , 
i just sent it back in , 
she stuck my name on some list , 
so they mailed me the information that i filled out . 
what other topics have you had ? 
i 've talked about camping with someone . 
i 've talked about the weather . 
that one was interesting because i talked to a man in washington , d c , 
and it was hot here , 
and it was snowing there . 
so that was pretty interesting . 
and i talked to someone about the , education system . 
i forget exactly what the focus was on that one . 
but that was fairly interesting . 
and i talked to somebody about credit card usage . 
and i talked to this person who i gathered from speaking to her , that she and her family just did n't have much , 
and they did n't have much credit available to them . 
and so she basically did n't use credit cards and did n't know very much about them and how they work , and how you can use them to your advantage , and how you can do certain things with them . 
i use everything with my visa , 
and i pay it all off . 
so that 's a good deal for me . 
i get free money for thirty days . 
that 's the way i use them 
i try to make sure i do n't get in debt . 
that 's always a good plan . 
i ca n't think of anything else that i 've talked about . 
most of the ones on the list , i checked off stuff like football and stuff that i would enjoy talking about 
and i have n't gotten a one of them yet when i 've called . 
let 's see , 
i 've had fishing , 
and me and dana had football . 
we did . 
how funny . 
so we talked about the cowboys a little bit . 
and , i 'm out here in phoenix , 
so we talked about cardinals . 
so that one was all right . 
and then what else did i have ? 
i got this guy from new york , 
i had to talk to someone about hobbies , 
and the switchboard called me , 
so i was caught a little off guard , 
and i could n't think of anything at all . 
so i started making stuff up . 
i told this woman that my hobby was gardening , 
and i ca n't even grow an ivy . 
and you 've probably never gardened in your life . 
my grandfather gave me a plant once , 
and he told me when he gave it to me that it was impossible to kill , 
you could freeze it , 
you could dry it out , 
no matter what , you could n't kill it . 
i killed it pretty quick . 
i do n't have too much of a green thumb either . 
i do have one plant here , 
it 's been hanging out for a while , 
but i think it 's one of the easiest plants . 
i do n't know the name of it , 
cindy , have you seen dances with wolves ? 
i have n't . 
have you ? 
that is a wonderful movie . 
the length is n't too long ? 
. 
we all heard different opinions about it . 
you do n't even realize it . 
it was too long 
and they thought at certain points that it was going to end , 
and it did n't , 
and it kept going on 
i thought it was great . 
i 've seen some different clips of it , 
and it looks good , 
it 's just i have n't had the time to go to the movies lately . 
there 's a certain scene in the movie where they 're on a buffalo hunt . 
and they have a particular child actor who 's being supposedly run down by a buffalo . 
and when they were trying to film that , the buffalo that they used for that scene was neil young 's buffalo . 
i ca n't remember what they said his name was . 
but he has a fetish for oreo cookies . 
and he got him to run like he was running down the kid by luring him with oreo cookies . 
that 'd work for me , 
let me tell you . 
i thought that was really funny . 
i 've seen another clip of the guy that plays in murphy brown , 
i do n't know his name , 
but he played the character in it that was very dirty , 
i saw the one clip of him 
i guess he was taking kevin costner to the site where he was going to be or whatever . 
that was rather gross . 
the wagon driver . 
but other than that i 've heard the scenery in it is absolutely beautiful . 
the only thing about the costuming my husband remarked that , the indians all appeared to be wearing new things . 
and they should have taken them out and rolled them in the dirt a little more probably to age the material 
they did very authentic reproductions of the actual stuff , 
the styles , 
but they did n't age it quite enough it seemed . 
but it was a very good movie . 
i guess i will have to see it then . 
what have you seen lately ? 
actually have been to the movies , 
i think the last movie i saw was misery . 
i did n't see that . 
very suspenseful . 
i do n't like stephen king . 
i really do n't either , 
but i went with someone , 
it 's an excellent movie . 
i was n't sure , 
because just generally that kind of scary stuff i just do n't want to have anything to do with it . 
it 's not necessarily scary as it is suspenseful . 
it 's not . 
i think i heard somebody talking about that 
she cuts his foot off or something . 
in the book apparently she cuts his feet off , 
but in the movie she disables him , but not by cutting his feet . 
she breaks both of his ankles . 
and that i could n't watch , 
but , you could tell when it was coming . 
so 
that was so that he could n't leave her , 
it still just seems a little twisted to me . 
i 'm not sure i would have enjoyed that at all . 
you would n't like to see anything happen to anybody , 
but it was just how she got so caught up , 
her emotions 
and she feel madly in love with this writer . 
but she was a killer , 
and the character prior to that had been someone that had killed other people 
but no one knew that . 
we just have n't had the time to go to the movies lately , 
i know , 
we do n't see movies at the movies a lot . 
we did go see dances with wolves 
and we went to see not without my daughter , 
but mostly we wait until they come out on video tape , 
and then we rent them . 
now i want to see sleeping with the enemy . 
that looks really good too . 
that looks good . 
and silence of the lambs . 
i 'm intrigued by it , 
but i 'm not sure i want to go see it yet . 
i do n't think i want to see that either . 
i know , 
i do n't think i could . 
we had some friends that went to see it 
and they said it was okay . 
i think they may be playing up some aspects of the movie that are n't the main aspects . 
we went to see the jagged edge . 
i liked that movie . 
so , it seems like that kind of thriller suspense and not real strange in other ways . 
i guess that 's about it . 
it was nice . 
maybe we 'll talk to you again . 
it was nice talking to you . 
being a former drug user . i guess i have to say at this point , that i do approve of it . 
because i know that in using drugs i was not a good employee . 
whenever you are an employee of the company , you are using its assets , 
, you are also under their liability , under the workmen 's comp . 
on my job we had a lot of workmen 's comp cases 
and , i work for a tire company modern tire . 
where do you work ? 
and it 's also a retreading plant , 
and that 's where most of our injuries occur . 
and what we do is we 'll have a drug test if a man has an accident . 
then he 's automatically given a drug test . 
do they do it within hours of the accident , 
when he goes to the doctor the first time . 
i do n't know if it 's been a deterrent or not , because we have just started using it for the past year or so . 
we 've let some people go that we , found that drugs were used in their system . 
i do n't know how t e c would handle it . 
they have n't pursued it . 
there was one guy that we tested for preemployment for drugs who absolutely swore up and down that it showed that he was using amphetamines , 
and he went to a separate drug testing firm , 
and they showed it negative . 
so i think the tests themselves are not really that cut and dried . 
i think that 's probably true , too . 
that 's sort of scary . 
and then i also had a friend who was just around some people that were smoking cocaine . 
and he tested positive on cocaine . 
you always wonder , is he just saying that . 
that 's a bad situation . 
i think most companies now , as far as entry exams require that . 
i think they should . 
i 'm a t i employee 
and , i 'm really gung ho for it . 
some of the places now like i b m do n't allow them smoking in the plant . 
we have designated smoking areas . 
it 's on the campus of the t i facility , 
but it 's a little bit separated . 
we lease the building . 
and it 's a factory environment . 
and they have designated smoking , 
but it 's just wide open , 
it 's not ventilated properly 
and i think that 's bad . 
but as far as the drugs being in the factory kind of environment that way i think it 's essential . 
because you 're endangering everybody 's lives if it 's something like that . 
in fact we 've had the policy on just the random testing now for a couple years , 
and i was giving my boss a hard time because i kept waiting for my name to come up , 
they never called me , 
and finally , the day we declared war was my time . 
you 're kidding . 
and my boss has gone for about three times , i think . 
and i told him he 's obviously in a high risk group . 
the executives ? 
and of course they did specifically single them out when we started that they were going to do all them first . 
the executives ? 
would n't that be awful if you were using , and lose your job and everything . 
which i thought was interesting . 
i ca n't believe i was so brazen before . 
like i say , i 'm a former drug user , 
but i accepted christ as my lord and savior , 
and so i do n't use drugs any more . 
what kind of drugs did you use , if you do n't mind ? 
marijuana , cocaine and amphetamines . 
and all on the job , too . 
it had gotten that bad . 
it 's really lucky that you got away from that . 
cause that 's really , downward spiral . 
life is so much more enjoyable . 
and i was losing jobs just from doing a poor job . 
that 's it . 
there 's all kinds of drawbacks , much less the drug testing . 
just life in general . 
that 's right . 
i 'm definitely for it . 
plus you want to think that you 're working with people who are not only putting out their fair share , but that are not endangering your life , 
that 's right . 
in some cases 
my husband several years back , worked for motorola . 
it was a chemical handling type . 
and they have some serious chemicals out there , 
they have emergency shower where you just run in there and strip off and dump water that kind of thing . 
and they had people out there using all sorts of drugs handling those chemicals . 
and that 's really frightening . 
so i think some places like that , it should be mandatory on a greater frequency than maybe , just paper pushers like i am . 
i would think there would be . 
you 'd think so 
but they were n't ? 
i do n't know if they do it till yet . 
is n't that awful . 
course now it 's been years now , because it was even before they had the designated smoking type stuff at t i . 
i guess it was eighty-four , eighty-five something like that . 
and at that time , they had no testing whatsoever . 
so that 's scary . 
i have a friend who was telling me about her brother who gets high all the time , 
and i have just casually asked her what he did for a living . 
and she said , he 's the supervisor of this chemical land fill where they go and dump all this toxic stuff . 
and i just went , where ? . 
should we move ? 
let me move as far away as possible . 
that 's awful . 
but , i 'm proud , though , that , i grew up in the sixties , 
and back then it was popular , 
but people have really become wise about drugs 
and they really have a good campaign for the young people . 
they know it 's not smart , 
so , i guess it was just a generational thing . 
that 's right , 
and that 's good . 
that 's the best way to stop it . 
it really is . 
i think we did it . 
it 's good talking to you . 
i enjoyed talking to you , cathy . 
do you have a favorite recipe ? 
that 's what it said to discuss some 
maybe a recipe , 
it says , what you would have for a dinner party . 
this is strange because i pressed one and i thought it said begin . 
maybe we 're all set . 
we 'll talk for five minutes , 
they interrupt at the end . 
it says what you would have for a dinner party , 
i just happen to plan one out for saturday 
i 'll tell you , what i 'm going to have . if i can find it . 
that 's wonderful . 
i have this new fondue pot 
and i was going to do basic cheese fondue , 
and i have two different kinds of breads and some ham 
when you have fish au gratin , 
i was going to make some fish chunks and dip it in the fondue . 
i do n't know if it will come out . 
some people like swiss , 
i prefer cheddar . 
i wo n't have a sharp cheddar because for fondue i think it should be a little calmer than real sharp , cheddar . 
and then i was going to make other things like potato skins . 
that sounds good . 
you do n't necessarily have to dip this stuff . 
and i was going to have broccoli and cauliflower for a vegetable . 
that 's always a good thing . 
vegetable trays always go over so well , because i think people get tired of eating junk . 
i think they like to have healthy stuff too , 
it 's amazing how vegetables trays will go at a party . 
i think better even than other kinds of food . 
my girlfriends do catering 
i think they try and suggest it . 
what i 've been doing when i get invited someplace and bring something , i make food kabobs . 
you take little toothpicks and cut up pineapple and strawberry , and even banana if you can do it just before you leave . 
it stays nice and fresh . 
that 's true . 
or even have you ever seen where they 'll take a watermelon and just cut the top out of it and then hollow that out , and then put the fruit in the watermelon 
that is really neat . 
i like those . 
they made a couple of those , 
they made one for my bridal shower 
and i was pretty pleased . 
i never made one for myself though . 
but they look easy enough to make 
i think it would be a lot of work 
you have to cut each thing or use the melon baller and stuff 
but i think they 're really neat 
you get probably pretty sticky after you get done . 
then you 've got to drain the water out of the watermelon because when you scrape it , it makes the water . 
i 'll make chocolate sauce and dip strawberries and bananas in them . 
i have two nieces 
and they go melt some chocolate chips , . 
go buy me some strawberries . 
is that good ? 
i 've seen that so many times , strawberries dipped in chocolate 
but i 've never tried it , 
are they really good ? 
if you get a sweet strawberry they 're much better , 
i bet it does n't mix well , does it ? 
they 're coming up from florida , of course . 
i live in vermont , 
but they 're really reasonably priced , 
they 're coming up from florida , 
that 's good 
because i know they 've been really expensive lately . because they were n't in season , 
actually i think they get some of them from south america . 
is that right ? 
a lot of winter produce comes from south america . 
of course , their seasons are switched . 
do you want to discuss the recipe ? 
i have a recipe if you want . 
a lot of people try to stay away from this 
but i make my own homemade pudding just because i do n't like box pudding . 
is that right ? 
i 've never heard of that . 
and it 
first of all i take about a quarter and a half of milk 
and i put it in a two quart saucepan 
and you put it on a really low heat . 
and you want to use one of your good sauce pans that dissipate the heat because it ends up burning , 
no matter how careful you are you still might get a film on the bottom of the pot . 
i do n't let that worry me . 
and i get the milk lukewarm 
and then i pour about a half a cup of cornstarch in it 
and i have this thing 
it 's called the slender blender , 
it makes a whip topping out of milk if you get the milk cold enough . 
i do n't know , 
they 're called moo goo leaves or something 
they 're real neat . 
i think they 're real reasonably priced , 
some of them , they used to be a hundred dollars , 
and they used to whip skim milk into a dessert 
but i did n't get that one , 
i got the black and decker kind . 
but it 's real handy because it does n't have a cord 
and you beat this cornstarch right into the milk , , 
and it does an excellent job , 
or just hand beat it . 
i guess you could use a hand mixer 
but i do n't think it gets it good enough . 
and then before the milk gets too hot i add two beaten eggs 
and i really mix them in good . 
and then about a half a cup of sugar 
i beat it every minute for about ten seconds 
and it starts thickening , 
it gets little globs of this rubbery cornstarch , 
and you just keep beating it in . 
the trick is to have this blender , 
you 'd have to probably almost go out 
you 'll have much better luck if you had one of these little blenders . 
and then you can add cocoa powder to it to make chocolate 
once it starts boiling , i cook it for a good seven to ten minutes 
and then you can make chocolate 
or you can take it off and let it cool 
you put really good vanilla favoring in it and some butter 
and that makes french vanilla custard . 
that is really interesting . 
are you saying to use for chocolate unsweetened , 
a chocolate powder . 
unsweetened ? 
that cocoa the unsweetened . 
it comes in a real dark can , 
our mothers used to use it . 
i have some . 
it 's the unsweetened kind 
it 's not like nestles quik . 
i suppose you could use that . 
cooking chocolate . 
that 's really interesting , 
i 've never heard of anybody making their own pudding before 
that 's really neat . 
i used to make the regular pudding , the chocolate and put it in the pie shell 
and if it would sit in the refrigerator for a day , where you cut the pie , it would soak into the pie shell 
and it was red , 
and i 'm this is kind of groedy . 
how did you get a recipe for pudding on your own ? 
actually i found it in one of my mother 's homemade cookbooks , 
something she had collected out of woman 's day or something . 
is that right ? 
that is just really neat . 
i think you could n't make it with a hand whisk or a regular beater 
it would probably be a lot more work and probably not turn out as good . 
but i still think a beater would do it good enough , 
the trick is to get the cornstarch , 
right in the lukewarm milk . 
sometimes i put the cornstarch in a separate bowl 
and i would put it in the sink 
and i 'll take my lukewarm milk and put it in the cornstarch and beat it good . 
it seems to be better than putting the cornstarch into the liquid 
once it hits the top of the liquid it seems to make little balls and stuff on the top . 
so you put the milk in the cornstarch ? 
and i 'll do this , 
i 'll put the eggs in the same dish and beat them up and then pour the cornstarch and the milk mixture in the egg . 
and then put that back in the saucepan ? 
and then if you can put your cocoa in with your cornstarch if you wanted to . the cocoa even seems to thicken it even more . 
my husband really likes it thick 
he says , i can stick the spoon right in this . 
because i 'm always worrying it wo n't firm up because when you take it out of the saucepan it 's i hope this thickens a little more because it 's not real package thick , 
when you cook a package , it 's a little less , 
but i put it in a nice glass bowl 
and some people do n't like that , film on the pudding 
so you can put saran wrap over the top . 
and then once the pudding starts cooling it makes little balls of water on the saran wrap , 
so , when you pull the saran wrap back , you sort of should be a little careful , pull it back and shake the water off the saran wrap 
and i might put it back on . 
do you put it in the refrigerator then 
when it starts steaming a lot i definitely put it in the refrigerator , 
my father always told me if you put hot food in your refrigerator you 're going to make it work too hard . 
that 's true . 
i knew that . 
, that 's why i do that . 
i do n't know 
that 's my great hard recipe . 
i was trying to think about some of my favorite people that i liked in music 
and none of them are recent . 
i like gordon lightfoot , 
do you know who he is ? 
and the moody blues , 
and i like to listen to piano music a whole lot , 
and willie nelson . 
you like a variety . 
sort of easy listening because you like country 
but not all country . 
i do n't like that , when they start , 
i do n't know . 
i just like willie nelson because he 's such a character . 
i like some of his songs , though . 
they 're not so sad country all the time . 
they 're just kind of sweet sometimes . 
they 're not the typical country where they 're just my wife left me , my dog left me . 
my truck is broken down . 
my truck 's broken down 
and my house just burned down . 
there 's a guy , 
have you ever heard of george winston , 
he plays piano . 
i think he 's dead now , 
but he plays wonderfully . 
i like that . 
do you play the piano , 
or you just like it ? 
very badly . 
i 've got a piano , 
my mother got a piano and vowed that someone in the family was going to learn , 
so we all had to take lessons , 
and i was the one that did the least poorly , 
so she gave it to me . 
and it 's sitting here mostly taking up space , 
but sometimes it makes you feel good to sit down and play it . 
it is real relaxing . 
it must be fun to be able to play it 
and if you can play tunes that people can sing along to it 'd be kind of fun , i think . 
because i play the flute 
and not many things you can play people will sit there and sing along to 
and you ca n't sing along either 
when , i do n't play , 
i like jazz music 
so do i . 
what 's that ? 
forgot about that . 
what 's that ? 
i said so do i , 
i forgot about jazz . 
i do n't know if you 've heard neurotic collection . 
we 've got about five of those . 
i love them . 
i love those , too . 
they 're just so relaxing . 
i 'd never heard them before until i went in a music store 
and you know how you put the headphones on and listen to it 
and i heard a piece 
and it was just so wonderful . 
and then even my eleven year old boy loves to listen to it . 
is n't that nice . 
it 's nice when you have a piece that is so peaceful , that everybody likes , 
and it has pieces that are uplifting , 
but , it 's mostly relaxing 
and because it does n't have words you do n't feel like , there 's anything you have to remember as far as singing a song or something like that or interpreting what they mean 
you can just sit , 
you know those little booklets that come along with it 
and you can just see the things that they 're trying to show with music . 
he 's identified the people that have written certain songs , 
then he buys the pieces that have that person on it . 
i see what you 're saying . 
i do n't even know who did which ones , 
but he does . 
i ca n't identify them either . 
i just like them . 
i know which ones come next , 
but i do n't even know their names . 
most of them i do n't know their names of the song , 
but i can identify them . 
but i like that 
and course i like classical music . 
were you in the band ? 
i was in the band , 
so was i . 
and i was in chamber music groups and stuff , 
so i 'm used to pieces 
and i played classical flute , 
i did n't play jazz flute or anything like that , 
so . i can relate to it , i suppose . 
and i 'm like you 
i like the older stuff , too , 
because i like chicago 
i like hebert , 
you do n't know hebert laws , 
but hebert laws a flute player , he 's a jazz flute player 
and i like chuck mangione , 
do you know who chuck mangione is ? 
i like chuck mangione . 
what 's his name , 
plays the trumpet . 
i like the moody blues . 
did you like them ? 
i like moody blues . 
i like mostly the older groups i think . 
i like simply red , 
we got simply red . 
i figure all our c ds that we have what i really like . 
and i like breeze , 
i like the group . 
i think just because they sound a lot like simply red . 
if i 'm going to listen to that kind of music nowadays , it 's easy listening . 
what type , simply red , 
i 've never heard of that . 
is it just instrumental ? 
it 's got people singing , 
but it is instrumental . 
but it 's got people singing 
but it 's got a whole bunch of people singing . 
you know , how many people are in simply red , stuart , 
he ca n't hear me . 
i do n't remember how many people , 
but , it 's got men and women 
and it 's nice , 
i mean it 's pleasant music . 
it 's not where it hurts your ears to hear it . 
but it 's not like , chicago where it 's got that much instrument to it . 
it does n't have all the brass and everything . 
my husband is telling me we have to hit the road . 
we 're going to go to commerce and see a friend . 
and , then i 'm going to go to sulphur springs . 
you must live in this area . 
where are you ? 
we 're in sherman . 
we 're in garland . 
you 're going to commerce ? 
for east texas or something ? 
just because there 's a friend up there , 
not because there 's much else . 
they 're having a lot of recruiting this week in all the different areas . 
for colleges ? 
east texas is recruiting for their fall semester 
and they 've been doing a lot of that in the area . 
they 're not going to recruit me anymore , 
i 'm through . 
no more for me . 
no more . 
what do you do ? 
right now i 'm just a homemaker , 
but i 'm going to school for legal assistant 
and that 's what i know , 
and , just nothing basically . 
are you going to go to east texas for that ? 
i do n't go to east texas . 
i got a degree from t w u , 
but i 'm really interested in the legal environment , 
but i do n't want to be a lawyer 
so i said i think i 'll go back to school and see about being a legal assistant . 
that 'd probably be pretty interesting . 
i was summonsed down to the courthouse last week . 
they had summonsed eight hundred people , 
about four hundred showed up , 
and it was for a murder trial . 
this guy had supposedly strangled this woman and stuffed cotton toweling down her throat and up her nose . 
anyway , this happened in nineteen eighty-three . 
and they had us fill out a long questionnaire . 
we stayed till about one thirty 
and they 're going to call the ones that they 're interested in from the questionnaire two to three at a time 
and the trial wo n't take place until june . 
that 's how it works . 
and they say it 's going to last about two to three weeks . 
and this guy in front of me said , i ca n't believe i was summonsed . 
i was an investigator 
and i was tailing the woman that was killed . 
then i have a friend at school that has a boyfriend that 's a lawyer 
and he said that this socialite in plano had hired four guys to kill her husband 
and the one that 's accused was the one that actually did it . 
and she has since taken off with another lawyer who had been getting cocaine from his client and then selling it , 
and he had skipped bail 
and they finally extradited him 
and he 's going to testify for the state against her so he 'll have his sentence reduced . 
and this is the man that was in front of you ? 
they 'll , weed him out . 
the investigator . 
he got off right away . 
and i wrote that down on my questionnaire that he 'd told me that , 
so i figure that that will make me biased 
and i wo n't be chosen . 
not necessarily 
hopefully . 
but there 's probably something else that might make you . 
because you could know about the crime , but not necessarily be taken off the jury not be accepted for the jury . 
pretty much a lot of people would know about it and know some of the different things about it 
but they might weed you out some other way . 
if you do n't believe in death penalty , you 're not going to be picked at all . 
the death penalty . . 
i said that , i could believe in it in certain instances , but i 'd find it hard to levy that against somebody . 
you 're not going to want to have him have that punishment . 
i was picked for another murder trial before 
and it 's so hard because everybody is wanting to go on and get the sentence done , 
and if you 're trying to hold out there 's so much pressure on you 
and you 've got to come up with a decision . 
especially with something where you have to find it beyond a reasonable doubt . 
you have to find whether they 're guilty beyond a reasonable doubt 
books . 
mainly i read the bible these days . 
that 's very good . 
i do , too . 
that 's great to hear . 
and christian literature . 
i used to read a lot of novels , 
but it seems as though if you really want to set side time to read the bible and you work and whatever that pretty well takes up your time for reading . 
it does . 
and i been praying that god would put a desire to read the bible in my heart 
and he really has . 
it 's getting , to where a just really want to read it . 
that 's good . 
that 's good . 
it 's hard for me to find time , also , to read . 
a lot of times i do just read magazines and stuff like that because i do n't have a lot of time , 
but when i do get to sit down and read , i like to read the bible 
and i like to read , 
i read to my daughter a lot , too . 
do you ? 
i have bible storybooks 
so i like reading those to her 
and she really enjoys those . 
so that 's good . 
and it 's kind of short because we do n't have a lot of time , to read , 
so , it 's real enjoyable . for both of us . 
have you ever read any of frank e peretti 's ? 
i guess i have n't . 
this present darkness and i forget the other , 
how old is your daughter . 
five . 
five , 
he 's written some children 's books as well 
and they 're all spiritually oriented , 
what 's his name again ? 
peretti , 
frank e peretti , 
frank e peretti . 
p e r e t t i . 
i have to look for those . 
do 
because i love to read his , children 's books , 
just to read them . 
that 's good . 
they 're good , 
they 're great . 
that 's good . 
and it 's usually about a family of archaeologists and the spiritual fights that they get into , like digging in old ruins , and running across the old gods and things . 
that sounds pretty neat . 
it is . 
it 's real exciting . 
i 'll have to look for those . 
and it also teaches them spiritual warfare , 
that 's neat . 
my daughter has precious moments collection 
and i like that because it 's real easy to follow for her , 
if i read straight out of the bible to her she 'd never understand any of it . 
it 's hard for me . 
that 's right . 
it is real hard to follow and understand , 
and i 've got a bible that has a little bit of a glossary in the back 
and it helps explain who people are . 
that 's about the hardest thing is , who 's related to who . 
i know it , 
and especially it 's hard to keep your interest in those begats . 
it sure is , 
but it is good reading 
and it 's good for us , and everything . 
that 's right . 
i really do enjoy it . 
but then on the other extreme i like to read horror , steven king type books . 
i 've read a lot of his , too . 
and i like that , 
that 's good fun reading . 
ca n't put them down . 
you ca n't , 
you really ca n't . 
they are good 
and they 're just so suspenseful . 
i really do enjoy his . 
there 's another guy . 
what is his name . 
i know . 
judith krantz ? 
who ? 
judith krantz . 
i know her . 
it 's a guy . 
and he writes the same thing , though . 
it 's that real , gruesome , horror stories . 
that 's good . 
koontz . 
his last name ends in a z , 
i know that . 
i think i know who you 're talking about . 
i do n't think i can pronounce it either , 
i 'm in a book club 
and i think i 've seen his books in there . 
i 've never read any of his . 
i kind of got burnt out on steven king , though . 
it 's one of his first books , the stand . 
that long thing . 
i know it . 
and that seems like all of his books have kind of come from that . 
they do kind of follow or , are similar . 
i love that book , though . 
i thought it was great . 
it really was , 
and i loved the shining . 
that was my favorite . 
those hedges when they started moving . 
whenever they made that into a movie , i was thinking if they show that , i 'll just die . 
for some reason that scared me more than anything . 
he just brings stuff alive . 
you could just visualize everything . 
and that was a pretty scary movie , too . 
i think they did a pretty good job , 
but , they did n't follow it exactly , 
but they did do it justice . 
that 's right . 
but most of the time they do n't follow books very well when they make them into movies . 
that 's true . 
i liked it as well . 
that 's , another big fat one . 
i did , too . 
that was good . 
i also liked , cujo . 
did you read that one ? 
except it broke my heart . 
i 'm a dog lover . 
me , too . 
and then night stand , 
is that night , 
dead zone . 
that 's one i liked . 
what ? 
dead zone . 
i 've read that one , too . 
that was a real good one . 
he 's written a lot of books . 
he just sits down eight hours a day . just like any other job . 
i know it . 
and then he has some under another name . that he 's written . 
that 's right . 
that one about the gypsies , or that , hunger 
i think his name was bachman . 
he wrote under the name of bachman . 
richard bachman . 
he is really interesting . 
he 's so prolific . 
i wish i could do that . 
i know it . 
and i have gone back 
and , after i graduated , i read some of the old classics that i just bluffed my way through and have found that i enjoy them quite a bit , too , 
i do , too . 
once you can get into the language , 
it 's like , it 's english , 
but it 's not the same english they speak today . 
so it 's kind of hard to keep at it , 
that 's true , 
they 're worthwhile . 
literature ? 
that was one of my favorite subjects in school was literature . 
me , too . 
i used to love those good old books . 
i did n't mind doing that at all . 
nathaniel hawthorne is pretty scary himself . 
why ca n't i think of their names , 
the one that wrote wuthering heights . 
was n't that jane ehre ? 
that was another one . 
he wrote jane ehre , too . 
you know who i 'm talking about . 
those are good old books and classics , 
that 's right . 
sure is neat . 
that 's why i like to watch that masterpiece theatre on channel thirteen , because they 'll take a classic and , televise it put it into a viewing format , more or less . 
a lot of people just do n't have time to read nowadays . 
i know it 's really hard for me . 
i work two jobs and have my daughter and teach sunday school and go to school , myself , 
do you ? 
so it 's hard for me to sit down and read , 
i can imagine . 
but when i do i just love it . 
me , too . 
i think we 've accomplished five minutes 
i think we have , too . 
thank you very much . 
it 's good talking to you . 
you , too . 
are you on a regular exercise program right now ? 
and i hate it . 
how about you ? 
i 'm kind of off and on . 
off and on 
i guess i 've been kind of off and on 
right now i 'm kind of off . 
i 'd say more on than off . 
what type of exercise do you do ? 
i do walking on the treadmill , 
and then i do low impact aerobics . 
i guess you do n't enjoy that very much . 
not really . 
do you find that to be boring ? 
and time consuming , 
it 's not just the exercise that 's boring and time consuming , 
it 's afterwards , 
then you have to take a shower and get cleaned up . 
i 'm trying to get back in shape for softball this spring . 
is this something that you go through every year . 
i have n't decided whether i want to play yet or not 
i just bought myself a solo flex machine , 
i do n't know if you 've seen those advertised on t v . 
it 's one of those universal type exercise machines . 
but i have n't really sat down and used it match yet , 
so it 's collecting dust right now . 
a lot of things do that . 
i had an exercise bike 
i used to jog somewhat . 
i use to have one , 
and i finally got rid of sit cause i never used it , 
but i do use my treadmill . 
that 's good . 
my parents have a treadmill 
when i go visit them i get on that thing every now and then . 
it 's nice because when the weather 's bad you do n't have any excuse . 
i just got the bicycle out today , 
and it was real nice outside , 
had to get out to do something . 
i ca n't ride a bike 
i 've been sitting in here in the house all weekend with a cold 
so thought i , better get outside and do something and not waist the day . 
it 's too nice , 
it 's been too nice all weekend . 
but 
i need to start something again . 
i 've always , 
but it 's terribly boring , 
and so i really do n't ever keep a program up consistently . 
have you ever had any injuries from jogging ? 
i never have . 
i do n't job enough to develop any injuries 
i usually only go about a mile or two . 
i guess it worries me about jogging that i hear that it 's very hard on your body and that you can end up getting hurt , worse . 
it 's tough on the joints if you jog on concrete , or on asphalt . 
suppose to be much better if you find grass or dirt to jog on . 
that 's not quite , so easy . 
you have to have the right , type of shoes too , 
that 's , very important . 
i found that , true especially from walking on toe and fronts . 
i do n't have to buy jogging shoes all to often 
my do n't get very much use . 
i guess my breakdown about every six months . 
i usually enjoy the exercise i do 
but like i said i 'm just not very consistent about maintaining a program . 
so i 'll bicycle 
i get into that for a little while and maybe go out on a consistent basis every couple of days and ride a bike for awhile , 
but then i 'll get tired of doing that , and maybe start jogging again and go out about three or four nights a week . 
but that gets old too in a very short order , 
i 'm hoping that this solo flex will change things a little bit , 
i really need to get on a regular type of program and use that thing on a consistent basis . 
do n't let it collect dust . 
at least exercise while dusting it off . 
maybe if i can get interested in playing softball again this string i can start some type of regular program . 
that 'll be good . 
i 've always found that when you write things down and set goals it 's a lot easier to keep something going . 
when i was in high school we had a choice of taking physical education courses on exercise , 
an one of those involved a six weeks session on a universal machine , lifting weights and working out like that . 
and that was very helpful 
we kept charts of our progress , and consistently increased the empty of resistance so you could see how much you improved over the weeks . 
i found that to be very helpful . 
are you going to do that ? 
i need to , 
i have n't started yet 
but it 's a thought . 
that sounds like something good to do then . 
sounds like something i should do . 
nice way to start off this spring . 
get back in shape . 
how often do you go out each week on your walking ? 
i switch every other day 
one day i walk 
and one day i do the aerobics . 
about how far do you go walking ? 
i 'm trying to get my tolerance now 
i just had surgery less then two months ago , 
and right now i 'm just a little over about a mile and a half , 
but i 'm trying to workup to three miles . 
that 's good . 
they say that walking is just as good if not better then jogging . 
it 's just that it takes longer to get to the same effect . 
my walkman broke , 
so i 'm upset , 
and i just have to turn to stereo up real loud . 
but it 's a lot less stressful on the joints then jogging is . 
it is 
my treadmill has an incline 
and you can get a really good workout on it . 
do you go to an aerobics class 
or do you watch , on t v ? 
i just do it on t v , 
i have a cassette . 
which shows do you watch on t v ? 
i use tapes . 
like a cathy smith workout , 
or richard simmons , 
or jane fonda . 
sweating to the oldies . 
every now and then i 'll watch e s p n , 
i get cable on t v , 
and they have a couple of shows called basic training , 
and what is the other one called . 
there was one guy i use to watch on e s p n , 
i do n't know if he 's still on any more or not , 
i do n't know if i get e s p n or not . 
i use to watch one on the air , 
bodies in motion that 's the name of the one i was thinking of . 
with gill . 
i watched that cause he was cute . 
he 's not bad 
his assistants usually are n't either . 
they 're always in hawaii some place . 
on the beach . 
they do low i pact stuff now , 
do they . 
they 're on every day . 
he 's still doing it then . 
every morning . 
i 'll have to tune in . 
it 's on e s p n , 
at what time , 
i ca n't remember what time . 
i ca n't remember offhand what time . 
i 'll have to check it back up , 
but the thing is everybody always looks so good on that show , at least on . 
every now and then . 
not everybody has a picture perfect body . 
i found that they have just a much better program than the other shows that are on t v . 
i have n't watch any other ones on t v . just on some of the tapes . 
they 're on weekdays at eleven o'clock every day . monday through friday incase you 're interested in that . 
i actually taped a few session that they had on there 
but i have n't done so much as watch the tape that i made . 
that 's a thought . 
so i 'm kind of bad about that myself . 
that 's thought , 
i have n't thought about that , 
they 're going to beep us pretty soon . 
i sure enjoyed . 
nice talking to you too . 
talk to you later . 
capital punishment , 
i honestly do n't feel like it 's strict enough in my opinion . 
in the way that it 's applied or it 's applied at all ? 
applied at all . 
how do you feel that it should be applied ? 
i just feel like there 's a lot of murderers and rapists , and everything else , just walking the streets . 
you know ? 
and that , the penalty ought to be out there , and be enforced ? 
not getting paroled in so many , years . 
if you 're going to sentence somebody twenty years , let them stay twenty years . 
i agree with that completely . 
i know we do n't have enough prisons , 
but there has got to be some kind of punishment , for these people . 
that 's right . 
because if they turn around , they get away with it , 
and they get away with it , 
and they get away with it , 
and then they do something worse 
and they get a slap on the wrist . 
they get , thirty days in jail 
and they go through fourteen appeals , and how many hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars . 
that 's right . 
that 's , honestly right . 
they have really got it better than we do , in a lot of ways . 
you know ? 
they certainly are living at our expense . 
it seems like , really a rough time 
you know ? 
i 'm not saying innocent person , 
let 's say someone wrote a hot check , for instance . 
when they go to prison , it , really seem like it 's a rough time for them 
and a murderer well go to prison , 
he 's just there to serve his time , and get back out on the street . 
and be paroled , and have served the sentence , 
that 's what people face with that choice . 
that should be life , 
and less they 're out . 
if they 're even in that long . 
or they appeal , 
and then they get an appeal that says it was an unjust amount of time , an extraordinary long length , or something . 
time , 
i would love to see them just really get real strict on parole . 
i 'd like to see the death penalty more as a deterrent , 
it 's not a deterrent right now , because it 's not really effective . 
there should be for this crime , this is the penalty . 
you killed , someone in cold blood or whatever . 
you get , it back , 
this is what 's going to happen . 
and it sounds horrible . 
i hear myself saying this , 
i know . 
because they let them back out again , 
and they do the same thing over , and over , again , 
same thing , 
then they put them back in jail , 
and they get out , 
and more and more innocent people are hurt or killed 
and these guys just are on the endless merry-go-round in the legal system . 
and it 's like i said at our expense . 
a lot of people really does n't think that much about it , because it has n't happened to them , which it has n't to me either , 
you know ? 
but still , it could . 
i know , 
you read about it in the paper , every day , somebody who 's done this , or that , something really horrible 
and they just get away with it , 
and nothing happens . 
and as far as the other states , i honestly do n't know what their capital punishment is . 
i , have n't kept up anything , like that . 
i think texas , the southern states seem to be somewhat more conservative and still have the death penalty , 
and i know california had it for a long time , 
and then they took it off the books , 
they repealed it 
the people who were there originally , when they changed the laws to revoke the death penalty , are in prison , in quote , for life , and are now coming up for parole , 
it 's been denied fortunately 
but still , it came up though , did n't it , 
the jury that sentenced him , sentenced him to death 
and then while he was on appeal on his thousandth and one appeal , the state of california revoked the law in the early seventies , 
and then they reinstated it later , 
but the penalty did n't go back . 
you know ? 
it seems like a lot of times the law is totally on the criminal side , and is n't protecting the rest of the people . 
the victim is really left out in the cold , more or less , does n't it , 
especially in things , you pick up the paper , and you read you think , 
and then he gets up for this one trial , 
and they do n't finds anything out about the facts that he 's done this over and over and over again 
i do n't know if they say it 's the first time offense or whatever , 
but they give him a lighter sentence , thinking he 's not a habitual criminal . 
or plead insanity . 
and a lots of things . 
but that seems to be a good way to get off for a lot of them too . 
they plead insanity 
and then three years later they 're cured , and let loose on society again . 
it just does n't make sense , 
it 's a scary world out there anymore , where you 're afraid to go out , 
i know , in the dallas metroplex area , i do n't go out hardly if i do n't have to at night by myself 
and i grew up in a smaller town in texas , 
and it was n't that way when i was younger . 
like i , said , i live in a small place . 
we could go around , 
but even the small towns now though , has really changed from when i was a kid , 
but now i 'm raising children . 
ever , 
when i was a kid , i would run between my neighbors , three and four blocks sometimes , 
and now i do n't let my kids out of the front yard , that i ca n't see them . 
see them . 
we 're probably fixing to run out of time pretty , soon , 
but i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
good talking to you too . 
what do you do this weekend ? 
pretty much spent most of my time either in the yard or at nurseries buying stuff for the yard . 
what do you have planned for your yard ? 
we just bought our house last july , 
and the house is forty years old 
so there 's an established lawn and whatnot , flower beds , things like that , 
but they 've gone a few years of neglect . 
so , we 're in the process of revitalizing the whole situation . 
we 've got different flower beds in front and a built in window box , , 
trying to get some color back in those , get the trees trimmed up get rid of a few weed problems and things like that . 
what part of the state do you live in ? 
i live in dallas . 
my wife and i , we live in dallas too , 
we 're planning on moving to flower mound , 
we 're going to have to do a lot of lawn and garden work there . 
seems like it . 
the place we 've been living at we 're just leasing it . 
in plano , the soil has such a high clay content , that i went to use my dad-in-law 's tiller 
and it about for my arms off , sockets . 
i 'll bet . 
i 'll bet . 
just scratching two or three inches was just a chore . 
it was , 
it was 
and then when it gets wet you do n't even want to get out in the yard , 
it 's horrible . 
it 's a nightmare . 
where you live is there a real high alkaline or ash content 
actually it 's done , 
it 's in the north end of oak cliff in kessler park area , 
i know right where that 's at . 
we 've got maybe eight inches to a foot of soil , 
and then it 's solid rock from then on down , 
it 's a little aggravating , , 
we ca n't put in anything too big as far as shrubs and things like that because they 've got to get a chance to find the cracks in the rock . 
is it limestone underneath ? 
it is . 
it 's solid limestone . 
how do you put trees in there ? 
we 're just happy that there 's trees already there so far , 
anything like that is a major undertaking i guess , 
sprinkler systems or anything start to get real expensive because there 's an awful lot of work that has to be done chopping through the rock . 
and it , not even , considering a pool or anything like that , 
practically has to be blasted in i guess . 
and it makes for a different challenge , 
i moved to dallas about five years ago , 
and i never really , messed with anything gardening or anything like that until now , 
but i keep hearing all the stories of different parts of town . 
in fact we were at the farmers market yesterday and bought a few tomato plants and things like that , 
and the first thing the old guy there at the stand asked is what part of town we lived in because he said i 've got a dozen different varieties 
and each one works in one part of town 
and that 's it , 
that 's basically what he was trying to tell us . 
we tried planting tomatoes last year 
and they turned out pretty poor . 
i just wish i 'd known , the variety and everything . 
but it 's amazing we also have roses , 
and they just grow so beautifully . 
in fact , we put in some more roses yesterday . 
what type roses ? 
a few different , hybrid tea type varieties . 
hybrid teas . 
we have a few of the real short stem . 
they 're kind of like the bush roses . 
but i do n't know 
i think it only has about five or six more years to go because it 's a really old bush , 
but i 'm amazed because the sun is so intense , 
and the roses just seem to survive just fine there . 
that 's what we 're searching , 
we 've got all the different lake editions around the house 
and we 're kind of experimenting right now . 
we 've got the direct sun in front 
and the backyard has two great big spruce and an oak tree all about forty to fifty foot tall 
so the backyard is just complete dark all day long . 
and , we 're struggling to find something for those areas . 
have you , done a lot of tree surgeon work on your trees or not ? 
they 're in pretty good condition . 
we 've been pretty lucky on that . 
just if you want a lot of light for underneath , that may be all right because , we have some old fruit trees . 
we have a plum that 's just about ready to go , 
so we may just be getting rid of that 
but our peaches they seem to be doing just fine , 
but they really need pruning . 
it just seems that even pruning once a year is really not enough 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
i do n't know . 
but , what kind of grass are you growing ? 
it 's bermuda . 
bermuda . 
i 've been trying a mixture of the bermuda and the rye , 
but i may be working a fescue in because of the type of weather . 
it seems that bermuda 's fine 
but it looks like it would hold the soil 
but it really does n't . 
a lot of , silt that comes in it just does n't seem to hold it very well . 
but the rye does really well . especially during the wintertime . 
but , once it gets over seventy , seventy-five degrees it just dries up , shrivels up and dies . 
but . 
there 's such a difference , through the year . 
my parents-in-law they 're building a house into the side of a hill , 
it 's already been built and everything . 
they 've been living there for about three months now , 
but this is out in west texas , 
but the wind there , has been so bad that they 've tried to plant grass 
and they just , , have some big time problems 
that 's it . 
so they just watching their lawn just blow away . 
but it 's quite an undertaking . 
they have about two or three acres of land on lake front property , on the side of a hill . 
it 's beautiful , 
you can see the house from miles away , 
but it 's a pretty neat little job 
but , they save a lot of energy 
but just for them they 're going to have to start gardening . 
it 's going to be from the ground up . 
the whole way . 
and they said , we just plan on spending the rest of our lives just , , getting this property developed . 
it 's amazing , 
all they have are mesquite and cottonwoods , 
and it 's all on lake greenbelt , that property out there . 
and i do n't know , what they have , 
they have all the water they want , 
actually , they can pump water , 
they have to get permission 
but they can pump water up from the shore , 
they have to pay some kind of fee per year . 
but right now though i think they 're trying to get the trees planted and everything . 
but i just think of all of the money that they 're going to have to spend just getting that . 
and some places , they really nail them for tax . 
and you 're talking just several hundred dollars a year in property taxes . 
it 's ridiculous . 
that really is , 
because even though it 's far out there , it 's just that lake greenbelt they try to do it just from selling the water . 
but the water usage they try to limit , even though there 's three or four streams that flow into it , 
people still use it enough in towns like clarendon and other areas where they irrigate . 
they still have n't gotten used to the dry land farming 
but , the irrigation because it 's gotten so bad the past few years , 
but i do n't know 
i just came back from there 
and just the air is so dry . 
i do n't see how anything can survive out there , for long periods of time . 
my father-in-law says the mesquite trees , they 're pretty smart , 
they 're smart , 
they 're about the smartest tree around . 
they do n't even start growing until may or april after it 's been raining for a few months . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
they say the roots have developed 
so that 's all they work on . 
they do n't do anything . 
that 's something i 've been looking around and noticed all the flowering trees and stuff are , at this time of the year 
and we 're trying to decide what to put on one side of the house and things like that , 
but there 's so many things that they last for just a couple of weeks 
then it 's just a bush there from then on . 
it 's kind of disappointing . 
i do n't know 
my wife and i , on the south side of our house we planted some gardenias . 
and they did real fine during the summertime 
but during the fall , when the rain let off just a little bit it just dried up . 
i do n't happen to have one at home . 
but i do have a personal computer on my desk here . 
a type of work station ? 
it 's kind of a kluge that was pieced together to , bypass the formal procurement process . 
and it works just fine . 
it says it 's a monochrome monitor , panasonic printer , 
no big deal , 
it does the things i need for it to do . 
is it a two eighty-six or three eighty-six base machine ? 
it 's not even that . 
it 's eighty eighty-eight ? 
i think that 's about where it is . 
what type of utilizations do you make of it ? 
word processing obviously . 
i do that , 
i do some lotus on it . do some samna , some p f m nothing extremely complex . 
i use them both here at work and at home . 
and i have i b m clones in both cases . 
here at work i have the t i one thousand which is a three eighty-six base machine . 
i bet that 's a pretty nice setup . 
it is . 
unfortunately i need all of it . 
for example , i was messing around with a spreadsheet this weekend that 's a third of a meg in beta size . 
and i know that , brings an eighty eighty-eight machine to its knees because , i had taken it over from a friend who was working on it 
and he had a two eighty-six machine , 
and then i have a three eighty-six f x a sixteen bit machine , at home . 
and i 'm really pleased with it . 
it manages to take care of all my home needs in terms of word processing and spreadsheets and database searches . 
what i 've gotten into more recently are the tools to use them . 
have you , 
to try to make them more effective and useful . 
have you been struggling along those lines ? 
i seem to always be in the next to the last generation of word processing software . 
when everyone was in samna i was still in p f m , 
and now that i finally become proficient in samna everybody 's going to wordperfect . 
so , i can never quite stay current with that . 
i think you will be real pleased to get away from the banana as i used to call it . 
i used it on some other machines in days gone by and was real pleased to leave it . 
it was a real memory hog when you started making large blot changes to it . 
at least the version i had tended to keep copies of that . of what you were changing and deleting off in memory until all of a sudden you got a disc full error . not a fun thing to try to recover from . 
i can believe that . 
very frustrating . 
but again i 've been dealing with large files both data and otherwise . 
that was a engineering spec on b two . 
you come here with the b level of specs ? 
not really . 
i 'm not that up on that sort of thing . 
it 's just a huge file that tries to describe the requirements of what you 're trying to build . to one level down from assistant description . 
it sounds like you 're pretty much into computers . 
i sure need them . 
there 's no way that i could begin to process and keep up with the kinds of information or the magnitude of information that i need to try to do my job without them . 
i can believe that . 
it 's been interesting . 
maybe you 'll play around some and figure out how they can help you do different things . 
i think that 's when you start deciding that you really need greater assets than you already have . when you start seeing what all they can do for you . 
of course , needs and wants are n't necessarily the same thing . 
i understand that . 
if , needs and wants were the same i 'd have a four eighty-six machine at home . 
is that the newest thing now , the four eighty-six ? 
that must be a fairly recent release . 
that came out around the first of the year . 
because i had done capital packages for two eighty-sixes and three eighty-sixes , 
but i did n't know they had a four eighty-six just yet . 
it does a few more things than had been available before . 
but i 'm not sure that it 's such a massive improvement . , 
once you get passed thirty-three megahertz , all help is , kind of lost in the translation . because you no longer can think that fast anyway . 
i enjoyed our discussion . 
i did too , 
and you have a good day . 
you do the same . 
where do you live ? 
in the houston area . 
i used to . 
i lived there for a long time . 
but i 'm now in palo alto , california which is the recycling capital of the world . 
that 's great . 
so , we have many recycling activities 
and i 'm , in full support of all of them . 
we are too . 
our community is just starting to get organized about it . 
they just opened up a recycling center where we go and donate our things and dump them off ourselves . 
that 's something 
but it seems to me that we 've gotten a whole lot better cooperation out here by setting it up so that we pay just a little bit extra , 
actually i do n't think we pay very much extra at all too , 
but the garbage men , come by on your regular garbage day and pick up the recycling out at the curb . 
i think that 's great . 
there 's a few places in houston where they 're trying that out . 
i do n't know if they 've done it citywide yet or not where they have the color coded bags and bins . 
we have burlap sacks , 
and they give us one for aluminum and steel , one for metals , and one for glass , 
and then you can either bundle your newspapers or put them in grocery bags . 
so , we leave three little piles , that they need out on the curb every thursday 
and the garbage men come by and collect them and leave us new bags when ours get old and ratty or leave the ones if they 're still in good shape . 
that 's great . 
and , it really pays for itself because then the city , gets the money from the recycling . 
we 're all for it . 
we 've got several bins in our garage where we sort things out and take it to the appropriate places . 
the one thing i wish we could recycle is magazines . 
but they claim that because of the way they 're bound it 's too expensive to recycle them . 
at my office , we have two big cardboard boxes in the library where everybody goes to pick up their mail , 
one 's for white paper 
and one 's for colored paper 
so anything like manuscripts or computer paper or things like that goes in those boxes , 
but we get tons of catalogs and things like that and magazines , 
and there 's no way to get rid of them . 
it just seems like such a waste . 
it does . 
it does . 
i 've seen talk about using garbage for energy . 
and so you could also apply the magazines toward that . 
that would be a help . 
i wish they would do that here . 
we have got so little landfill space left that we 're going to run out before the end of this decade . 
and it 's really going to be a mess when they have to start hunting for places to put the things . 
i know it . 
we did have another novel experiment start this year . 
now we can put all our yard clippings out . 
you buy these super giant heavy-duty paper bags , 
they 're about four-feet high . 
and you get them for about fifty cents apiece at the grocery store 
you usually buy them by the dozen . 
and then you put all your yard clippings and leaf rakings and anything that will be compostible . 
and the garbage men also pick those up on thursdays . 
that 's great . 
and then they take them to a special part of our dump where composting is now in full swing , 
and at the end of every year they sell all the composts to nurserymen and to local people who want to put it on their flower beds . 
that 's a great idea . 
i wish that our city was that involved in recycling , like that 
because i 've talked to many people 
and we would n't mind going its extra effort to do it . 
if they make it so that it 's not a horrendous inconvenience , i think most people would . 
, 
and i do n't mind , 
at first it was the little extra money that you got returning the cans in and stuff like that . 
but now i do n't mind as long as things are getting recycled that we do n't get reimbursed . 
i think it 's , to me more of a convenience to have them come pick it up , then to get that two cents when you take it to the store . 
i know it . 
we still have bins at the grocery stores where you can turn in bottles and cans , for cash . 
but so few people have enough to make that worthwhile 
you 'd spend more in gas getting down there then you get back . 
plus the time that you waste standing in line is valuable also . 
do the grocery stores in houston have recycling for their paper bags and plastic bags ? 
i know the one that we use has recycling for the bags . 
and they 're promoting the cloth bags the reusable cloth bags . 
we can get a nickel apiece for any paper bags that we bring back to be reused . 
that 's great . 
they just take it off like they do a coupon . 
they can just subtract it from your bill , 
and they have a giant bin by the front door for the plastic bags , 
and they say , as long as it 's clean 
they do n't want a plastic bag that 's full of goop . 
here they do n't want your rotted tomatoes . 
but they want any clean and dry plastic bag 
and the thing is , i hardly have room now for all the things that we 're saving it to recycle , 
so right outside the back door , i 've got the two burlap bags hung up for the cans and bottles , 
and there , right outside that place where the garbage can is we have the bag for the newspapers , 
and now we 've got the bag for the plastic bags . 
i understand , 
my husband about once a weekend he 'll go to a couple of areas where he knows that the people just throw cans out . 
and he 'll go pick them up because he just ca n't stand that . 
how nice , 
that 's great . 
we have all our piles of recyclables also . 
when you were talking about the composting , the only thing that our city did was they provided a place for us to take our christmas trees . for them to mulch . for city use . 
they just put all our christmas trees in the regular compost , pickup 
so they did say that you had to put it out within three weeks after , christmas . 
and otherwise you would have to treat it like you would any other lawn refuse . 
it would have to be cut into four-foot lengths . 
so if we have branches or something , they have to be cut in four-foot lengths , 
but otherwise they have to be in one of their paper bags . 
that sounds like you all really have a great system worked out there . 
and they even picked up our styrofoam packing materials . 
the week after christmas they left a plastic bag on everybody 's front doorknob with a little note on it saying , we 're trying something new next week only , 
if you have any of those little styrofoam peanuts that , any of your christmas presents were packed in , put them in this bag and leave it out with your recycling 
and we 'll take all of those back and try to recycle them . 
that 's not going to be a regular feature . 
that was just a one time thing right after christmas . 
those things must take up a huge amount of space in landfills . 
they do n't mash . 
they do n't compress at all . 
and they stay forever . 
and i 've seen where some places have taken a plastic and they 're recycling them into other plastics . and the styrofoam also into insulation and things like that 
and i think that would be great if they could get something organized along those lines . 
i do too . 
the difficulty with that is that very few people have enough to make it worthwhile . 
they really have to rely on businesses that generate a lot of that stuff . 
because otherwise they 're not going to go house-to-house collecting it , 
and you 're not going to bother if you have one bag full , to drive all the way to some recycling center to turn in just your little plastic peanuts . 
i know our cafeteria here uses a lot of styrofoam 
we quit that about three years ago when we got china mugs for everybody . 
and the only difficulty with that is that we 're in the middle of a five-year drought 
and so it 's a real difficult choice whether we want styrofoam cups to fill up our landfills or china cups to use up our water . 
but at the moment we 're using the china cups , 
and everybody gets one at the beginning of the year , 
and then you 're supposed to keep it recycled every day . 
that 's good . 
they should last awhile . 
let us hope that everybody 's going to be paying more attention to this and that we will get better reuse of things 
i believe we are . 
i have to believe everybody is starting to pay attention and take heed of what is happening . 
and so it will be good , in the long run . 
it sure will . 
i enjoyed it . 
good to talk , 
what is your view , 
do you consider the soviet union a threat ? 
it 's real confusing right now to know what kind of a threat it is , i guess , 
it takes awhile to get used to something , if the , place has completely turned that much around to where they 're not what they used to be , 
it 's hard to know anymore if it 's a threat one way or another because it used to be so , much in the past that whatever the top said the rest fell rank and file in behind it . 
and now that gorbachev is introducing more freedoms or expressions of freedom , it does n't look as though everybody 's following the same pattern . 
you never know , 
whereas in the past it was seen as whoever was the head of the communist party was seen as untouchable . 
the thing that keeps happening is happening so fast and so dramatic that you almost think , wait a minute , 
we 're getting stuck into something here , 
if somebody 's about to clobber you , the first thing they do is sort of say , we 're ashamed , we 're not going to do that anymore . 
and i 'd like to think that that is n't true 
the evidence is that he 's let some stuff go the east german situation . 
it 's just the whole thing is so incomprehensible , , 
if i 'd have been asleep for five years , and read it in a book , i said , that could n't have happened that way . 
it 's amazing just because of the drain that 's been on both economies that our economy is , of course , been able to withstand that a little better , 
i do n't know what the percentages are , 
but i heard it one time , 
it 's just some ungodly number just to support the military machine . 
and finally who knows 
maybe they 're finally waking up and saying we ca n't afford this . 
the u s is n't the threat that we 've always made them out to be even if they 're saying that beneath the doors . 
but it 's hard to thing that just one person can bring that much of a radical change in that short of period . 
even if it is the best thing in the long run , it just steps on too many people 's toes , who are comfortable with the way the situation is . 
i guess to answer the question directly , i 'm still just a little bit leery of the whole thing . 
what i have n't seen is a great stepping back in the military , situation . 
it 's one thing to let us go ahead and sort of disarm 
and i even had a thought once that the whole iraqi thing might have been just a deal to go ahead and let us expend some military hardware . 
expend ? 
of course , it did n't turn out that way . 
and that may have been a kind of far out way of thinking about it 
i do n't know . 
it 's interesting , anymore 
the world 's getting so small that it does n't seem to tolerate anymore any kind of the expansionism , philosophy that was here twenty years ago . 
but , of course , the people who have challenged that or tried to do , have not been world powers . 
so , it 's easier for us to say to an iraq you ca n't do this , 
get back , 
or we 're going to force you . 
or we can do something about it . 
and all of a sudden it was like somebody in the red square or wherever said , okay , 
and that 's enough . 
and the tanks came in and pretty much took care of that . 
personally i do n't see gorbachev as being maybe a threat , 
and i think he 's actually , honestly trying to do some change . 
but i do n't believe that he , in this first pass around being the first one to really turn things around or attempt to is going to be allowed to get away with it either . 
this would be like if somebody was elected president of the united states and suddenly took off toward just some pretty hard socialism , 
the social structure of the soviet union it 's coming apart at the seams . 
and i 've heard people say , it 's just like the american civil war , 
will there be a union or not ? 
it 's not the same sort of a thing at all because that , the whole soviet system was put together under total force , , 
as we are seeing now with a lot of those , areas wanting out of it , 
those people did n't vote to become part of the soviet union , 
they had no choice . 
that was always kind of interesting , 
a lot of my friends have taken us down , the stance of these people are just trying to be free and trying to get away 
if i 'm a soviet and if part of south south dakota wanted to succeed , am i going to stand for that . 
i realize that the origins are different and that we all joined under a common direction and a common bond to begin with , and that they may have been forced , 
i 'm not that familiar with their future , 
it 's easy to believe that they were probably more forced into a pact than a volunteer or willingness to join . 
the whole thing was put together by force . 
there 's no real question about that . 
and some of the countries that were forced in at later dates is the three baltic countries came in the forties , 
and it 's not that they came in , 
it 's they were conquered by the germans , 
and then , just never given back . 
and then the russians even , took it back from the germans and never bothered to give it back , 
so . that 's , a little different situation . 
the whole idea if you look at the russian history and all countries the way it used to be is , the only way to truly protect your borders was to have a buffer . 
and that was the whole idea why they had so many buffers 
and maybe countries hopefully are seeing that that buffer is n't going to help you , 
i guess israel is a perfect example . 
the reason they have the angolan heights all their buffer area is between jordan and the sinai 
and lebanon was just as a buffer 
but as you can see the scuds go right over there . 
they do n't really pay a whole lot of attention to buffers . 
there 's very little that binds you anymore in today 's technology . 
i knew a lot of guys in the service when they were sent to germany they said that 's the safest place in the world because if a war starts , all the bombs are going to go right over germany 
and they 're going to land in other places , 
that 's going to be the safest place to be . 
that 's probably very true . 
that 's very interesting , 
never thought of that . 
i really do n't know , , 
i hope that what 's happening is exactly the way it appears . 
it 's kind of a strange thing we 've been trying to make something like this happen for so long that when it finally happens you say , wait a minute , 
nobody knows what to do . 
what 's really happening here . 
is it real ? 
who , was it 
boris yeltsin evidently was elected president of the soviet , for the russian republic , which is the biggest , 
was there nineteen of them or whatever , 
and these were all the soviet economists , , 
they had some real fancy names for them . 
what i read when the united nations was setup in san francisco , one of the first things the russians wanted to do was bring in each one of these , republics , as a separate country , 
so there would be nineteen , rather than one . 
as a vote . 
and the united states said , that mean we get to bring in forty-eight . 
they backed down on that . 
died down on that . 
i thought it was interesting that recently here the warsaw pact no longer exists as a military force , 
but it 's merely an economic now . 
, what do you get shot by 
something that 's called an economic force or what is called a military pact , 
you can change the name of something 
but i wonder if it still , exists . 
the funny thing there is they 're not particularly welcome back home because they 're having housing shortages now . 
what do you do with all these troops that have been taken care of by bulgaria and czechoslovakia 
and now all of a sudden they 're going home 
that 's what they 're saying 
what are we going to do with all the soldiers over there ? 
what 's going to happen to the economies that no longer have a million plus people in each country from the u s ... 
the question was what kind of books do you read for entertainment i guess , 
i just read for escape . 
with two little kids i can understand that . 
that 's simple . 
i read to escape , 
and i do n't read any parents magazines either . 
i just finished one last night . 
a great book . 
it 's very , a typical for my reading though 
but a great book , one called , the things they carried by tim o'brien . 
i do n't know if i would call it a collection of vietnam war stories or if i 'd call it a collection of vietnam love stories . 
strange book . 
beautifully written . 
just beautifully written . 
by somebody who was there 
a guy who was there as a foot soldier . 
so , he considered himself to be a true vietnam soldier . 
i can imagine . 
what 's the latest one you 've read ? 
i tell you what , 
i 'm kind of a history nut . 
i 'm trying to think back now , 
i read an awful lot of periodicals and almost what you call reference books . 
i have never been able to make it through any of michener 's work . 
i 've had similar problems . 
are you a civil war buff at all ? 
as a matter of fact , 
because i finished one , 
i think this is two years ago , 
and the novel did n't do that much for me . 
but the period of time was fascinating . 
was it battle cry of freedom , 
i think it was battle cry of freedom . 
battle cry of freedom . 
it 's kind of like a historical compendium , of the civil war , 
and it 's not a story of the civil war , 
it 's a story of all the politics and lobbying and just basically state by state events , that lead to the events that brought about the civil war . 
and it 's fascinating because i had always been raised on this emancipation proclamation with the civil war . 
there was a lot more to it than that , were n't there ? 
there was a lot more to it than that . 
as a matter of fact that was a very minor part that kind of become like an afterthought . 
it was a political move . 
it was made to placate some of the northern support but not completely alienate all the southern support because if you read it , it only emancipated those who were in areas in rebellion against the united states . 
all the other areas which at that time would have included west virginia and kentucky , a few states that were not part of the south but still had slaves . 
they did n't emancipate them . 
you know what else really surprised me 
i 'm married to a native texan 
and i 'm not . 
i 've got the same problem . 
i 'm glad you put it that way . 
and i have two native texan children too . 
my husband is always talked about texas being a rebel state . 
and all this civil war pride . 
where 's some reference to this goddamn state of texas and the role that they played either leading up to or in the civil war . 
is n't much there , was there ? 
they might as well have not even been there . 
they were n't a state 
and the only way that they had any part in it was after worth as to who 's going to be going there . 
and i keep telling my husband that , 
and he keeps saying , . 
i thought , okay . 
they were some groups of it , the vicksburg , 
if you ever get a chance to go over to vicksburg , the battleground at vicksburg there 's an area there where there was , some texas groups 
and they had an interesting time there . 
i 'll bet they did . 
i ca n't think of the guy 's name 
but just he and a handful of guys managed to hold off the whole union navy for a while from coming up the sabine river which was of no consequence but still is an interesting story . 
you know , why they actually held them off ? 
none of the yankees wanted to listen to their kind of luted grammar . 
that , could be it . 
you did n't hear me say that . 
and then the last civil war battle was fought at val verde , 
over there on the texas border you had a lot of groups heading for mexico 
and they were cut off at the pass more or less , at eagle pass . 
and they did n't get across the river there 
and that was actually after the war was over 
but it was the last , organized battle between the two units was in texas , 
do n't tell that to a native texan though , 
they fought and won the whole thing . 
my wife 's from galveston , 
i 'm from new mexico 
that 's a beautiful state . 
that 's a beautiful state . 
we did n't even know where the mason dixon line was , 
and besides if corn did n't grow there , it did n't matter . 
it sounds like iowa or something . 
iowa and nebraska . 
and then i had probably lived the last eleven years in massachusetts 
so what does that make me , 
an honorary yankee 
or , god knows what . 
my sister 's living in illinois right now , 
then , she 's going to come out well rounded . 
but outside of those kind of things the other thing that i 've really gotten into reading is science fiction . 
i 've always kind of enjoyed it . 
i used to read a lot more than i do now . 
i 've gone to the point where my husband travels , i get out two or three books . 
and i 'm trying to think of isaac asimov , robot series . 
i think i 've read all four of them 
and i understand that there 's a fifth . 
in the last six weeks he 's been on the road a lot . 
i just turned around and looked at my bookcase up here 
and i see armageddon up there . 
space that was the one i was trying to wade through was space , 
james michener . 
did n't get very far on that . 
i think i read hawaii , when i was about ten years old 
which is about the developmental level that you need to be at to read those things , 
and even then i was so disgusted with it 
whatever one it was it was such a blockbuster seller . 
and i got about a hundred pages through it and realized i had a thousand more , 
i thought , i ca n't do this . 
the books are kind of imposing to say the least . 
let 's see , 
here 's one called ghost towns and mining camps of new mexico 
not too many people have read that one i do n't think . 
and there 's the history of yoakum county , texas there . 
is that a big , thick book ? 
and i 've got a history of kingsley , iowa . 
what the hell for ? 
why kingsley , iowa ? 
because that 's where my folks all came from . 
and they had a centennial here awhile back . 
i read the grant takes command , 
that was pretty good . 
that was part of that trilogy that bruce canton did . 
i do n't know . 
i had never really been into science fiction that much until somebody gave me mist of avalon probably about five or six years ago . 
i do n't know if i 'd call it science fiction or fantasy . 
sometimes it 's awful hard , 
some of those get very philosophical 
they can be in any setting , 
they just happen to put them in a futuristic setting , 
i loved that novel . 
and then somebody said , this would have been even long ago because i was in boston 
and it was raining all night , 
and i had a hole in my roof 
and i was waiting for the whole house to collapse , 
and i was reading dune . which seeming rather ironic . 
and i read the whole damn book while i was home hauling out ten-gallon buckets of water and waiting for the roof to collapse and , reading about these guys wearing their little 
you 're reading dune . 
and , i think that 's probably my favorite of any piece of science fiction that i 've ever read . 
that was a movie too , was n't it ? 
and the movie was awful . 
was it ? 
it was just terrible . 
i did n't see it 
patrick stewart was in that . 
i guess the guy that 's on the new star trek series was in that thing . 
i do n't know , 
i just remember sting was in it . 
even having read the book watching that movie , i could n't figure out , what they were talking about , at all . 
i was real disappointed in that . 
i 'll tell you another good book , 
do you like scary things ? 
some history , books are pretty scary , 
that 's true . 
have you read , the silence of the lambs ? 
somebody who , saw the movie here the other day told me it was the most terrifying thing they 'd ever seen , 
they did n't sleep all night . 
i am debating whether or not i want to go see the movie after having read the book . 
the book is chilling . 
just chilling . 
i do n't have the foggiest notion what it 's about , 
then i wo n't tell you . 
that 's the one . 
that 's the one . 
even better than jaws and some of that ? 
because the character that is so horrible is another human being . 
and you 're just drawn into his horror , of him that you , begin to kind of like him . 
a freddy kruger type ? 
this guy 's smart 
and he 's suave 
the worst kind , 
how do you feel about the immigration laws ? 
currently , i think they are a little restrictive . particularly for certain ethnic groups from certain countries . 
i think we should permit more immigration from eastern europe , for example particularly the jewish people from russia . 
i think we could permit more of them in than we have permitted in the last several years . 
and , i think we have too much restriction on the orientals also , 
but , of course , that 's just my opinion . 
i 'm not real sure why i got this topic , because i do n't think i checked it off on the list because i know very little about the current immigration laws . 
we seem to favor certain countries particularly south american countries . 
i have nothing , of course , against the south americans or hispanics , in that sense , 
but i think we are more restrictive of the so called eastern european countries than we should be . 
of course , that 's from my own bias since my ancestors , 
so i think the embargo we placed on the russian jews , although we spent years and years lobbying for their release and their ability to immigrate from russia as soon as that occurred , we simply said that instead of the hundred and fifty thousand or so who wanted to immigrate to this country , we cut that by two thirds . 
i do not quite go along with that , 
that does n't make a whole . 
again , kind of having within this century , come from an immigrant family , or immigrant families on both sides . 
both my mother 's parents and my father 's parents were immigrants 
so , i 'm a little touchy every now and then about that . 
my family is from europe from england and ireland and have been in this country for more than a hundred and fifty years almost two hundred years , 
so , i do n't have any , relatives several generations back , that i am familiar with their names and how they fit into the family . 
they were all born here 
so i do n't have any real strong ties with the immigration laws . 
i do n't have any personal feelings about them 
and i have n't taken the time or effort to learn what they are . 
i think in a way , though i also have an opposite point of view , which is although i believe we should permit constant immigration into this country primarily for economic reasons , i think we should have some quotas , 
my grandparents came over during the time when there were quotas . 
so they had to wait in certain parts of europe for years before they were permitted to come over . 
but i think unrestricted immigration is not best . 
i agree with that , 
i think if immigration was entirely unrestricted not only would the united states become more over populated awfully quickly it would bring in a lot of people that are , run out of other countries or in trouble in other countries . 
i think they 'd come here trying to find a new market for their brand of crime . 
there 's another aspect of this , too . 
i was not aware of that . 
age is one , for example , 
and recently tuberculosis , which at one time , if you had tuberculosis you could not get into this country they dropped that also . 
so i think in some ways we are becoming a little too egalitarian in that sense , 
but i think we should be a little more circumspect about it . 
again , my opinion . 
think we 've talked long enough ? 
i think so . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
i have talked long enough . 
thank you . 
let 's see . 
i guess , if i call i 'm supposed to start . 
i think that 's the way everybody has done it so far . 
but , anyway i think that we are paying a lot in taxes , 
but i think that we have a government and we have a lot of freedoms , and we have a lot of things that the governments do with our money . 
we 're probably one of the only countries in the world that has all the things that we have . 
as far as the quality of the streets , the school systems the hospital stuff that the government gives money to . all the things that the government does like that . i think they need to manage it a little bit better , 
but i do n't think anybody is just going to come in and fix it in a couple of weeks , because they 've been messing it up for many years , now . 
i have to agree . 
and you 're right . 
we do have a good government . 
we do have a lot of things that , the taxes are there to support , 
but i do think they 're mismanaged 
and i think that sometimes it 's to easy of an answer . 
it seems to say , i 'll tax them if you ca n't get enough money , instead of trying to figure out how to cut budgets or cut spending or , get all of the waste out of the spending . 
i do n't know what y'all are paying in dallas , 
but it seems like we pay the state , 
there 's the taxes set by the state 
and the city can add theirs , 
and the county adds theirs , 
and we 're paying almost eight percent sales tax , right now . which seems to me nuts . 
i came from california 
and when i left there , we paid six cents on the dollar , 
and that was one of the highest in the nation . 
i think it 's seven here . 
seven point something . 
ourselves is seven point seven five . 
whole state . 
it drives me crazy . 
i 'm thinking everybody is sitting here screaming about , we do n't want a state income tax , 
but yet they allow the sales tax to go up and up and up and up 
and they do n't do anything about it . 
where are you at ? 
what state ? 
i 'm in lubbock , texas . 
we 're still one of few that do n't have the state tax . 
that 's true . 
and i did pay state tax in california , 
but 
the sales tax , is just getting outrageous to pay . 
that 's true . 
you do n't sound like you 're from dallas . 
where do you come from originally 
texas ? 
i do . 
i 've lived in the dallas area here since i was four . 
. it 's an urban area , i guess 
whatever . 
i do n't know . 
you just managed to escape the real texan accent , 
i thought maybe you had come from somewhere else and had some experience with taxes there . 
i 've just lived here , 
but , i do n't know , 
i do , 
i can think of all the biblical things about it , too . 
i ca n't think of the scripture . 
render unto caesar 's what is caesar 's . 
that 's right . 
even in the story where they had to pay the taxes , the disciples , and jesus said the money in the fisher , inside the fish . 
and i thought of those two things when i was holding for a long time . 
were you really , trying to find someone at home ? 
the mumblex would always try to stump jesus , try to give him something that would contradict himself , 
and so that 's what they were trying to do with the tax situation . 
and , of course , that 's when he said you render unto caesar 's what is caesar 's , 
you render unto god what is god 's . 
i do n't think they really cared about the answer , 
they just wanted to try and catch him in something . 
but i believe in paying taxes 
and 
like everybody else , i try to take as many deductions as i can , 
i do n't want to pay more than i have to , 
and i get outraged when i feel like they go up for useless reasons , 
but i believe that they 're necessary . 
i really do , 
do you deal with taxes much in what you do when you work 
not really . 
i spends a lot of time with our income tax , though . especially , this year and last year . 
i have been married for just a few years , 
schedule a . 
all the deductions and all that . 
did you notice that when they passed the new simplified tax act , it seemed like it made everything harder ? 
it really did . 
i saw , that , too . 
i did n't notice anything simplified about it , except that they took away the deductions , the interest and , other things . 
we 're looking at buying a house , 
and that was one of the main pluses that we have about buying a house . 
and it will help tremendously . 
we bought ours five years ago 
and it 's the one thing , 
it seems like you make those payments every month 
and at the end of the year you 've paid all interest and no principles . 
so that will definitely help in taxes and what you will get back . 
i 've been trying to learn as much as i can about it , 
i know i get paid twice a month , every two weeks , 
that 's once a month . 
i get twenty six paychecks , which would come out to be in thirteen months . 
that 's right . 
so if you pay your rent or your house payment every two weeks , instead of once a month , you 'll come out paying one month extra every year . 
that 's right . 
and if , it will take seven or plus years off of your note . 
that 's right . 
my parents bought a home in san diego about four or five years ago , 
and they did that . 
they thought their payment was automatically taken out every other wednesday , 
and that 's exactly right . 
though the note is thirty years , she said it 's going be paid off in twenty or twenty one years , or something like that . 
just because of exactly what you said , 
you 're making one more month 's payment every year . 
and that 's going on the principle , 
it does n't pay any interest , 
or , usually it does n't . 
so , that 's a good way to do it . 
and when we bought this house , we looked at doing a fifteen year note , because it added more to the payment , but not significant amounts , 
it was a good payoff for being able to pay it off sooner . 
that 's what we 're looking at , fifteen or maybe twenty . 
we 're not going to go longer than twenty . 
but , we 're taking our time . 
we 're going to try to make our decision by july . 
that 's good , though . 
we just started two or three weeks ago . 
and we 're not going to just kill ourselves 
just two or three houses a week at the most . 
that 's good , though . 
is it kind of a buyer 's market down there ? 
that 's good . 
credit union has nine percent interest . 
that 's pretty excellent . 
i do n't know , 
we could n't think of a better time to buy than now . 
that 's good . 
but , anyway . i ca n't think of a whole lot more to say . 
i ca n't either . 
i appreciate the call , though . 
me , too . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
same here . 
my wife she went to the school out there in lubbock . 
in lubbock ? 
she was there for two or three years before we got married . 
i guess , before i even met her . 
just a second . 
go ahead . 
but anyway , 
so she was at school out here ? 
she went to school there . 
what was her name ? 
cathy walker . 
i did n't know any walkers . 
good luck in your house hunting . 
thanks a lot . 
y'all work at t i ? 
i do . 
you do . 
i 'm in human resources . 
that 's interesting . 
i work in the waiver . 
do you really , 
i work with elma . 
i did all of their capital and financial planning for about eight years . 
and then i have been in human resources for the last two years 
and i work with those same people all those nine years , 
so , i feel kind of part of the staff . 
i 'm turning in a capital request right now , 
you are . 
that 's funny that 's where you 're from . 
what are ? 
a machine that puts back grind tape on and off the waivers . 
so you work in back grind ? 
i 'm sort of an acting process engineer . 
not officially , 
but that 's pretty much what i do . 
that 's what you do , 
good deal . 
what did you think of sam ? 
i like him , 
he 's hard , 
but we needed that . 
that 's good . 
it was the same kind of thing , 
he had a lot of good results . 
that 's what he said here . 
he 's gotten us into a linear flow that we 've never been in before . 
that 's been a real big plus . 
he 's broadened the devices that we 're making , too , which has made us as lot more stable . 
that 's good . 
anyway it was nice to talk to you . 
you too , 
they 're are going to interrupt us any minute now , 
i can tell . 
i know they will , 
and besides my daughter wants me to put her to bed . 
me , too . 
have a good day . 
you , too . 
since you live close , i do n't know if you know about what louisville is doing with recycling , 
or are you familiar with any of that ? 
i know that we have some relatives that live around the area in there , 
i know they 're doing some curbside recycling as a kind of a test there . 
when they first started doing that in the paper , and i read about that , i was just praying that , that would be in our area , because we 've been recycling for quite some time . 
and we separate everything out , and then have to haul it up to a metco which is a real pain . 
curbside recycling , 
they 'll help you , recycle , because there is some bins behind wal-mart , that take some things . 
have they moved them behind wal-mart ? 
because i finally asked because we had all of those milk cartons 
and there was nowhere else to take them 
and they had it in front of wal-mart 
and i ask in wal-mart 
and they said they moved it just behind . 
that 's really nice to know , because we were doing the same thing . 
because to take it to a metco , you have to take it when they 're open which is always a real pain . 
and so when that thing came up in wal-mart parking lot , we thought , this is great . 
and we started taking them up there . 
and then , all the sudden , it disappeared . 
i did n't know . 
and we 're going , there goes our recycling place . 
that 's really nice to find out that it 's behind there . 
we pretty much do plastic milk cartons and newspapers . 
i could n't even think of what you call them . 
plastic milk cartons , newspapers and cans , and glass is really the four things that we do . 
aluminum cans ? 
that 's about what we do too . 
and really , that 's really about it . 
is there any place else that really takes anything other than that , that you know of ? 
i guess down kind of in north dallas , there is a place that will take almost anything . 
we just do n't have the room to store all that much , 
i know . 
i do n't want to be running down there every week , or whatever . 
i know . 
i know . 
we 're kind of the same way . 
at first it was a real hassle , 
and i 'm wondering are we really going to do this , 
but you kind of get into a little routine where it is automatic , now , to throw , different things in different places , 
so i just go , 
we have a pretty good size pantry in our kitchen 
and i 've just got three trash cans sitting in there , , 
we just kind of dump things in each one , if we get them , 
those milk cartons take up so much room . 
they do , too . 
and they 're impossible to crush . 
you ca n't get the down to any size . 
if you get four milk cartons that fills up trash bag pretty easily , 
so , 
i guess we kind of started recycling after i moved here about a year and a half ago . 
we were using baby food 
and there was so many baby food jars . 
some of our neighbors were doing it 
and so when i found out some places to take it , 
and they also take some things at the flower mound dump behind the fire station there , 
and i know that they 're going to use the money for that to build some kind of multipurpose field and that type of thing . put lights and stuff 
that will be good . 
so if i 'm not going to get the money for aluminum , i would just assume give it to the city of flower mound . to do something with . 
let somebody get something out of it . 
that 's true . 
and they wo n't raise our taxes . 
do you work for t i ? 
i do n't . 
t i has got this organization called t a d which is t i'ers against drugs . 
and we 're recycling aluminum cans up here just what you would buy out of the machines and drink here 
and there was crushers out in all of the hallways , 
they use the money from that to fund this t i'ers against drugs program . 
t i does n't give them any money , 
everything is made from that . 
and they had talked about having a thing like , one saturday a month , you could come and drop your aluminum cans off from home , 
and i 'm kind of yeah . 
they would do that because at least somebody was getting the money out of it that was going to use it for good , 
sounds like you have a little one just like i do . 
she 'll be two in july . 
mine was two in december . 
it was good to talk to you . 
it was nice to talk to you . 
i know they 've started over in richardson where my dad lives . 
they pick up newspapers , i think . 
do they really . 
curbside pick up ? 
i really hope they do that in louisville . 
it would make it a lot easier on all of us . 
talk to you later . 
ladies , first . 
i do n't find a lot of time to watch t v . 
and a lot of time , i find it during the day when i 'm rocking my little girl to sleep , 
so i watch a lot of reruns , old shows , like dick van dyke , all those old crazy shows . 
barney fife , i guess . 
i really enjoy watching andy griffith . 
so you 're a homemaker ? 
i guess , that 's , the right term nowadays . 
i guess so . 
i am . 
i stay home with two kids . 
we have a new one in the house 
and she stays home , too , also . 
i guess , i have a wide variety . 
i like watching the t v for things that are interesting , 
not so much the things that are n't , 
for example the cosby show to me is just kind of a waste of my time , and different strokes . 
but i like sixty minutes , prime time live . 
of course , i have to watch cartoons on saturday morning , but not the ninja turtles . 
i like the old-timey ones , tom and jerry . 
you sound like my husband . 
there you go . 
he likes tom and jerry and bugs bunny and all his friends . and all those guys . 
johnnie quest . 
the good ones . 
if i 'm ever home during the day on a vacation day , i have to catch at twelve o'clock the andy griffith show , because he 's one of my idles . 
but i do n't know , 
it seems like nowadays everything is so electronic magnified and animated , that you can grab from the old style movies and old style shows a little bit more insight to family groupings . 
and so now i do , with the cosby show , 
i have seen it a couple of times 
i like the show . 
i just do n't watch it . because of the timing , 
i do watch the special shows that they come out with , the nova stuff . and , the nature shows . 
but , i think there 's enough out there to pick from . 
we do n't have cable to the point of the h b o or any of that stuff . 
and i do n't want them watching something that i do n't think they should watch 
or , i used to be really hooked on all my children , 
me . 
and i watched that for ten or fifteen straight years , 
and then i 'd eat 
at work , we 'd have a t v or whatever . 
and then as my kids got older and started recognizing what was going on , i thought , this is n't really very good . 
so i gave it up . 
fifteen years . 
bet they hated that . 
i had watched it since it started . 
now i do n't know who the characters are , 
and i 'll turn it on every once in awhile 
and i do n't recognize anybody , 
so i guess that 's a good sign . 
this might date me here , 
i can remember staying home , when i was five and six , and my mother watching the edge of night . 
you 're probably about the same age as me because my mom watched the secret storm , and the edge of night . 
secret storm . 
i think they were back to back , and black and white . 
i was just a youngster 
and i was . 
my mother watched all that stuff , too . 
and i think as the world turns may , still . 
still be on . 
it was not too long ago . 
now they got a lot of other crap involved . 
you 're right . 
i think some of the tones of the daily prime time is questionable , 
i have to agree with you . 
keep them on the channel twenty one . the nature stuff . 
we do , 
and it 's real interesting , too , the difference in my kids , 
my oldest loved sesame street , and those kind of shows . 
my younger one does n't . 
she 's more into walt disney kind , 
we watch a lot of movies that we 've got on tapes , and stuff . 
she 's more into the animated stuff , where my other daughter liked puppets and that kind of thing 
but , we do a lot of kid watching . 
sounds like you got your hands full there , 
and i do appreciate speaking with you . 
it was fun . 
have you gotten your catalog yet ? 
i do n't think so . 
i just spoke with jim . 
i just got my in the mail 
and it inspired me to make more phone calls . 
i 've had a few people call me , 
but , i 've never made one . 
i need to get brave . 
give them your pen number . 
that 's what i need to do . 
have a good day . 
i can tell you pretty much my two favorite shows 
and they kind of are in different spectrums , i think . , 
one of them is quantum leap 
and the other one is night court . 
and i think they 're real different 
i do n't think they have anything in common , 
quantum leap is kind of a comedy in its own way , i guess , 
but mostly it 's kind of science fiction , 
and it 's adventure and things like that 
and then night court is just pure weird fun , 
it 's nothing serious about it at all . 
so , i do n't know why the two of them happen , to be my two favorite shows , 
but that 's the way it is , 
it 's funny that those are my husband 's two favorite shows , too , 
and i enjoy watching both of them , 
but i used to did n't like night court 
and the only reason i think i like it now is because i 've seen it so much 
and i 'm involved with the characters , 
but , i used to think dan fielding was just too vulgar and too crude for me . 
he is . 
and i told my husband , that 's the whole point , 
that 's right , 
i find him degrading at times . 
i guess that is the point , 
they really have changed him though . 
if you 've watched it this season he still is in his own way degrading and everything , 
but he 's involved in that charity , 
in fact , there was one show that he even turned down a date with some beautiful woman just because his mind was on the ozone layer and global warming and all this other kind of stuff . 
so that was part of his character building or whatever , 
i think it probably adds a little bit of depth to his character . 
which of course he needed . 
i think so , 
which in quantum leap you get 
even though the person is involved in so many other people 's lives , you still see a real person in those situations . 
he 's doing amazing things 
but he 's doing them within the bounds of what a normal person would do 
that 's a good point , 
i like that . 
what do you consider your favorite shows ? 
i think my favorite show is hunter . 
and , i like the old series better when dede was in there . 
dede , 
i agree . 
and then the blond that they took out , the one that got killed 
i ca n't remember what her name is , 
i did n't enjoy her . 
she was too much of a opposite of dede , 
and i think that 's what they try to do , 
but i think we wanted to see dede there or somebody like her . 
but i read an article in t v guide about hunter , and about his three girls , whatever you want to call them 
and they say that there was a conflict between her and him that they never really could get her into any character that they could use . 
the second lady ? 
the second one the blond 
if you think about it , they did n't really interact hardly at all 
they did n't . 
they were never partners . 
she would go her way , 
and he would do his , 
and i think that 's what i did n't like . 
and even at the beginning dede and hunter would decide that one of them would go do this , while the other one would go this , 
but it seemed like it was almost two different organizations , 
hunter was the boss , 
and this other girl was not , 
and you 're wondering , when did this happen ? 
so 
i kind of agree with that . 
and i like the new lady better , 
but i 'd just as soon that they did n't have the romance there . 
i 'd just as soon have the police story without all the romance . 
i 'm afraid that 's what they really wanted to do , 
i think most shows were doing that , 
and then they went away from it 
and now they 're starting to go back to it , 
and maybe that 's what the public wants , 
i do n't know , 
but i like the cut and dry solve the mystery , 
and that 's what i always enjoyed about it . 
there was that spark between dede and hunter for a while 
but they started it , 
and then they 'd pull it back , 
and they 'd start it and pull it back . 
and that really made it a very interesting show to where you never really knew which one was going to show up whether it was going to , where they 're going to be real close or whether they 're just going to be partners 
and , that i kind of thought was good , 
you always kind of sit there 
and you see these two people together , 
and you always wonder , why they do n't get together or whatever . 
and so i guess that 's what they decide to do 
just go ahead and quit the wondering 
but it 's always been a formula for t v that the minute that the two main stars get married , that the show ends up dying . 
maybe it 's not a good example . 
i 've been watching nickelodeon all last week , because they had what they called maximum smart . 
they had get smart for ten hours a day , from seven o'clock at night , until five o'clock the next morning . all the get smart episodes you could ever see . 
the last day , all they did was the last season , to where the two of them got married 
and that was the killer , 
i was going to say , i did n't ever watch moonlighting , 
go ahead . 
but i heard that 's what killed it 
same thing . 
that interplay died when they got married , 
and so the show died . 
it seems like you can do so much more of the subtle hints and the subtle little plays on things before they get married , 
the minute they get married , everything 's supposed to be cut and dried 
and , of course , another one of their mistakes is they have a tendency to change characters , or to change the characters ' personalities especially after they get married . 
halfway through , 
couple of examples would be like i said , this one about get well smart , the female character , barbara feldon 
she had been at the beginning the intelligent one , the one who always solved the things and figured out and kept max from getting real messed up . 
in short , whenever they got married , she got dingy . 
why would they do that ? 
it made no sense . 
unfortunately , that 's probably true . 
like in the big soap opera shows , which i do n't enjoy because of that , 
do you watch who 's the boss ? 
that 's on tuesday nights i think . 
i 've seen it before , 
but i do n't watch it regularly . 
i hardly ever watch it , 
usually tuesday nights i 'm out , 
but , as i 've seen it , they 've done sort of the same thing to where they started to let them get together , 
and then they pulled them apart 
and i think they 're thinking about that exact thing , about the idea that if the show lets them get together , then you lose part of what the show 's all about . 
so . i always thought that was kind of weird . 
it 's funny how we romanticize people 
for instance , where as the teenager you romanticize a rock star , 
but when he gets married , then you do n't care any more or something like that , 
and i think it 's the same with your characters on t v . 
do you think that 's why most rock stars nowadays keep their marriages secret , or at least they keep it quiet . 
probably , 
i know it affected me when i was younger . 
i 'm not into rock stars too much lately , 
like madonna and sean penn . 
i do n't particularly like either one of them 
but their marriage was so highly publicized that there was no way that they could stay together 
or at least , that 's the way i look at it . 
so i do n't know , 
it would have been hard , would n't it . 
i would think so . 
when you get married you 've got relationship to develop in the first place , 
they would n't be easy . 
that 's kind of interesting . 
i guess that 's about all we need to do , is n't it . 
i think we 've covered our time . 
it 's been good talking to you . 
it has been , becky , 
i really appreciate it . 
you 're the first man i 've talked to , 
everyone else has been a female , 
so this is a change . 
you 're the second female i 've talked to . 
you 've had a little bit of variety . 
it 's kind of nice . 
thanks so much . 
personally , i do n't have any children . 
i 'm twenty-two 
and i 'm doing my master 's at n c state 
so children would n't be very convenient for me right now . 
would they , 
how do you spend the time with your children ? 
both of mine are boys . 
they 're eight and eleven 
and they 're into sports 
as a matter of fact , that 's what we 're doing tonight . 
what are you doing ? 
baseball has started . 
does the eight year old play baseball ? 
we start here at five . 
and in his league do they have a pitcher , 
or do they have a standing ball or a machine , or what ? 
it 's coach pitch , until you get nine which my little boy will be nine in may . 
so he 's going to be with regular pitching 
and my eleven year old , of course is pitching . 
i used to play soccer when i was that age up in new york , 
but 
we 're into baseball , 
and it seems like soon as that we get into basketball . 
we even have peewee basketball here . 
there 's always something . 
and how about on the weekends . 
do you do sports 
or do you go out ? 
both . 
if we 're not doing sports we go somewhere . 
do you go for long vacations , like a week or something when they have school off ? 
in the summer or in the easter time around now ? 
usually in the summer time . 
and where do you go ? 
different places every year . 
have you been out of the country ? 
first , they always say , get to know your country first before you leave , 
when i lived in washington , d c , i never went to the washington memorial , 
and then when i went back to visit , i went to the washington memorial . 
i 've heard , we have a couple of friends that goes to washington quite often , 
and that must be the thing . 
they really had n't either . 
they went to the memorial , 
when they go , it 's on business 
it 's not really just getting to sight see . 
it 's a beautiful city . 
i bet it is , too . 
but , the problem is first time i went out of here , they took me to las vegas 
and that was the most boring place on earth . 
my husband and i , we go different places . 
but when we go with our children we usually kind of stay close . 
did you go to disneyland ? 
but now , i do n't know , 
but let 's see , 
when i was eleven i went also to the caribbean . 
that was fun . 
that was , 
my sister lives in turkey , 
so when i was fourteen , fifteen , i went to turkey . 
and this christmas , i went to turkey . 
i 'm from argentina , 
and my parents live down there . 
so , all the traveling i do is alone . 
that was a lot of fun . 
but , what happens is we used to fight a lot , 
so there 's never much of a family thing . 
one of those hell family vacations . 
my husband also , we 're involved in everything our kids does 
because my dad died when i was less than a year old 
so i always just had a mother . 
so i always thought , when i have kids i really want to be involved with them . 
my dad , all he wanted to do was get money for us , 
so he could buy us material things . 
material things , 
and to me it 's now i 'm twenty-two , 
it 's we never threw a football or something 
and he wants me now , 
he wants to be best friends now 
best friends , now . 
and it 's very hard for me 
because it 's like you grow up to be twenty years old , 
and it 's always the same man 
and then suddenly he sees that he 's getting old , 
and he wants to be best friends 
but it 's i can only express myself so much , 
because everything that my family taught me , . 
it 's i love you 
and let 's go out and do things together when i do n't feel like it 
i 've seen my uncle and his family does everything together , 
when his little girl was five years old and everything they would go to the beach , 
and she could go to sleep at two in the morning 
and i was brought up the same way , 
it does n't matter what age you have , 
just so long as you can get up to go to class the next morning , you can stay up , 
but what he does is , when he gets home , he separates his work from his house . 
you have to 
you honestly do . 
i have friends that i love to death , 
and they have children , 
but their children does anything , 
we have to take them , to do it . 
and that really gets kind of aggravating after a while 
because you 're saying , i work full time too . 
you might have problems , 
but it 's not your kids ' problems , 
thing is , that if they would ever happen to have a drug problem , suppose , that they could feel comfortable coming to me and saying , i got a problem , 
problem , 
and that would make any parent feel good and bad at the same time , 
first of all you 're coming to me 
and let 's see how we can get rid of the problem , 
and that 's very hard to do , 
because once you 're best friends with your parents , then , i think everything go a lot better . 
i agree with you very much so . 
we waited several years before we started having children because we was still in college , 
it would not have been a good idea to had them then . 
my father was raising three kids before he had me , 
you 're trying , to support four kids , 
and it 's pretty hard , 
and i told him , you could have had a lot of money if you would have only had two kids . 
he says yeah , 
but then i would n't have you , 
i go , yeah , 
but then you would have a lot of money . 
that 's right , 
but you ca n't take this money with us , though 
that 's how i keep looking at it . 
but four children is expensive especially for me , . 
i 'm paying three thousand , 
what is it , two thousand six hundred dollars for one semester . 
and people say it 's expensive to think it 's college , 
but , if everybody would be a little bit responsible , 
what does it cost . 
it costs five hundred dollars a semester . 
they go to a state college 
and they live at home , 
and it costs two hundred dollars for books , 
but seven hundred dollars a semester , 
if you can , 
it 's like , if you plan a year ahead , you can probably save up seven hundred dollars one thousand four hundred dollars to send your child to college . 
what are you learning to be ? 
excuse me ? 
what are you wanting to do after you get out of college ? 
i 'm doing computer engineering . 
my husband 's into computers . 
and now i 'm looking for a job before they have to send me back home 
because since i 'm an international student , they want to send me back to argentina . 
my dad wants me to go back . 
and you do n't want to ? 
because if you go back there , then you can never get out . 
you do n't have any money to , get out . 
and , i was thinking i go back there , 
and i get married there , 
and now i have kids there , 
and then i 'll never leave the place . 
then you 'll never leave . 
i know , 
and that 's what happened to my brother . 
he came to school up here , 
and then when he went down there , he was just so bad off from not being able to stay up here that his life just went down the drain . 
maybe something will open up for you . 
i 've been calling a lot of companies . 
there , 
some of them are interested . 
at least for a year and a half i can work , 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
same here . 
like i was saying , burlington 's crime , it does n't involve children 
the subject is big city crime , which is something that i do n't have any first hand experiences about , 
but i have concerns , 
and i have a few ideas of how to combat it . 
i do n't think , ideally you need money to do everything 
so that 's one thing 
that 's crime that you ca n't fight it if you need that money . 
i grew up around san antonio , 
and it 's always been a very large city , and increasingly growing . 
it has kind of the split population . 
there 's a lot of retired military individuals that live there , 
and then there 's a very large hispanic population there . 
and the one thing that we noticed that over the years has gotten worse and worse is hispanic gang crime in the city 
and that has been the worse thing that we 've seen happening . 
does it spread out of the neighborhoods into the , retired people 's community , 
or does it stay in the bad neighborhoods ? 
the majority of the actual gang crimes , like the drive by shootings and stuff stays in the neighborhoods , 
but the crime spreads out into the more affluent divisions through robberies , rape and car crime . 
there 's a very high percentage of car theft . 
and san antonio 's not far from the border to mexico , 
so a lot of the cars go to shops , 
and they take them apart , 
and a lot of them go over the border , especially mercedes . 
a lot of those in the z cars , the datsun cars end up over the border , 
so that 's a big concern if you live there , is to really lock your car up . 
very much so , 
very much so , 
in fact , for a while there downtown if you were to come to a stop light , they had a rash of when people were stopped at stop signs that people would get in their car and hold a knife and hold them up . 
so now , ever since then , when you drive into the city , most people keep their doors locked while they 're in the car , until they get down there , 
and once you 've reached the river walk area , which is the tourist area , it 's usually pretty safe during the day , if you 're just kind of cautious and do n't go down the back streets or alleys or alone . 
if you stay with the groups and along the area where they have the river patrol cops , it 's very nice . 
but at evening again , they have the high tourist area , the river walk area , which is nice , 
but you do n't want to get off the beaten track . 
there 's a lot of parking garages there because parking is very tight . 
and so you do n't want to get caught in the parking garage alone . 
it sounds like san juan , puerto rico , 
we were there just for a lay over 
and it was n't a lay over , 
we were staying at the other end of the island , 
and we drove into san juan to catch our plane . 
it was at night , 
and this boy really wanted to go on the beach , 
and they look at you crazy 
you do n't go on the beach . 
it 's a big tourist town , 
do n't people go for a walk on the beach at night ? 
and they said , no , 
it 's very safe in the daytime 
but at night , they even have the policemen come around at dusk and sound their sirens , pretty much telling people , be wary and get off the beach . 
it 's just so sad , 
it is just really so sad , 
it is just really so sad because you ca n't enjoy anything any more . 
in san antonio i do n't know what the answer is . 
education is a lot of it . 
so many of the kids are drop outs . 
there 's a lot of drugs that go on , and that they just have hopeless lives . 
they lead themselves down hopeless tunnels . 
i think education helps a little bit there . 
what they say they try to do is to get the kids early and young . 
and what we have here in burlington they have a kids council that they have all these after school activities for kids . 
they set up kids with elderly people , 
in the winter time they shovel their snow . 
they have a big brother , big sister program . 
they have bottle drives , 
they have cleanup outings . 
and they have also organized fun activities like gyms , going to the beach , and playing volleyball at the beach in the summer , 
and they have gyms open . 
and it seems that the younger you can get them and get them involved with programs after school , you might keep them 
but again , you need that one on one like a big brother , trying to tell him , stay in school , 
it 'll get better , 
so that your mom does n't have a job 
and she does n't work , 
you do n't know , 
you can be better than that . 
you do n't have to live for a street life . 
that 's good , 
that sounds like they 've got a lot going on there . 
but it 's so cheap 
they do n't have a problem here . 
they can deal with that scale . 
they might have five hundred troubled youths . 
the kids now , it 's twelve years old 
and they 're selling drugs 
and they 've got a fifteen year old that 's their boss that is carrying a gun . 
i guess everybody 's responsible for the society , 
they do n't care about anybody 
these people they 're stealing from , they 're just the big bad rich guy 
and we do n't have it , 
so we deserve it , 
and we should take it . 
i do n't know how you combat that . 
i do n't know where you start with a lot of these kids , 
so many of them , all they see is just the gangs 
i think a lot of it is the parents are totally irresponsible , too . 
we 're talking these kids are fourteen years old . 
the parents might be thirty years old 
and i 'm thirty years old , 
and i 'm kind of irresponsible , 
if i was going to go out and drink or do something , i would n't do it in front of my child . 
these people they bring their johns home 
and they bring their drugs home 
and the kids are just sitting there in the same room . 
it 's just that they have absolutely no morals 
and it 's really sad . 
and i do n't know how you combat that . 
i do n't know what the answer is to that problem . 
but i like your idea of education 
if the parents are n't supplying it , they 've got to get it from someone else from the schools , 
and what do those kids do , 
they get it at school and come home , 
what do they do then . 
i feel for them , 
i do n't know how to make it better for them 
they ca n't remove themselves , 
they ca n't just leave and say it 's not acceptable , 
i 'm leaving the big city , mom , 
and i 'm going off , 
when they 're ten , they have to live in it , 
it 's really sad , 
if they did have a big brother , big sister program 
those people trying to help the kids , 
the parents might have hostilities towards them like you 're judging us , 
i think so , 
and i 'm not good enough to raise my child , which basically is true 
i 'm glad i do n't live in a big city not just because i would n't feel safe , 
it 's just because that i would be reminded every day of something that i do n't see , 
and i might see it on a sixty minutes special . 
in san antonio it was every day , 
it was just a matter of who was shot that night , 
i know it 
but san antonio is considered a nice clean city , believe it or not . 
they have all kinds of nice write ups about it 
but there 's a lot of them , 
but any big city has a bad section . 
it 's very prevalent , 
a lot of the crime is very prevalent . 
they 're very bold it seems . 
very much . 
when we moved here to monterrey it was a big change , because it 's such a small community , 
we 're just above carmel , 
most everybody seems pretty well employed around here , 
there 's celinas which is about a fifteen minute drive , which is mostly migrant workers , 
and there 's a lot of crime there , 
migrant hispanic farm workers , people that are down and out , 
and they all seem to congregate in celinas , not so much here in monterrey . 
so , it 's pretty quiet , 
we walk the streets at night , 
and people run in the park , 
have your normal smarts about you , then you really do n't have to worry , 
even in the worst crime areas in burlington , 
i can walk the streets . 
i would n't , 
if i did it every night i think there would be trouble in our house , 
so you would n't get confronted or anything 
but i do n't think you would , 
someone might grab you , mess around with you , 
that 's what you 're going to have to expect that to happen . 
people are just totally unfeeling . 
i did n't know that about burlington , 
i 'll have to keep that in mind . 
mostly freshwater , 
freshwater , 
i used to fish when i was real young , down in galveston with my parents , 
and i never really got into that too much , because you have to get in the boat really to do anything , 
and i did n't know anybody who had a boat , 
so i do n't fish too much in saltwater . 
most of my fishing has been in the saltwater . mostly deep sea fishing for grouper and bottom fish 
and i have caught one or two small sharks 
and . 
what 'd you do with them ? 
put them back . 
you did n't get a big kick out of killing them like some people do ? 
i love shark steak , 
but the ones i caught were never large enough to really do anything . 
do they have a limit on sharks , 
is that a sport fish , 
can you actually catch those 
and there 's no limit . 
is there a limit ? 
i have no idea . 
my home is in pensacola , florida 
so , they do a lot of shark fishing in the gulf 
and there 's a certain period of time during the year all along the gulf coast from galveston to mayport they have , shark tournaments , 
i think i 've been trout fishing once . 
i 've never fly fished . 
have you fly fished ? 
i have n't . 
i do n't know that i could do that . 
that looks awful tiring . 
i 've tried it once , 
did you . 
did n't like it ? 
i could never get the hang of it . 
it looks complicated to me . 
it 's a rhythm or something . 
i usually ended snagging my fishing partners or the trees along the bank . 
catching tree bass , 
almost got an owl once . 
did you . 
that would have been something . 
do you fish mainly for trophies 
or do you eat what you fish . 
when i was working in florida , i used to do a lot of surf fishing mostly for relaxation 
there are people who fish , 
and then there are people who catch . 
i 'm a fisher . 
you just like to sit down and watch it . 
that 's right , 
i 've never caught that much , 
and occasionally we 'd go out on a full day trip three or four other people and do either , again , bottom fishing or for grouper 
or , i 've caught a few worthwhile snappers , red snappers and gray snappers and so forth . 
that 's nice . 
what about you 
most of my fishing is done at area lakes around here , freshwater lakes 
i have n't been really in a long time . 
last time i went i actually was in galveston trying to saltwater fish 
and it just was n't working with my freshwater tackle . 
that was real fun . 
but i went fishing at lake worth . 
it 's a fairly new lake in texas . 
and we went fishing there last memorial day , 
and i caught my first bass that was actually big enough to keep . 
i was so excited . 
and that 's really about it . 
mostly just the lakes around here , 
and i fish to take home and cook . 
i do n't get too much joy out of just sitting and watching . 
i get a little bit of relaxation from it , 
but mainly i want to say i brought something home . 
i want to say i did this , 
i was out there for a reason . 
the last time i went bass fishing , i was with my daughter , a friend of hers , and a friend of mine and his daughter . 
i was the only one who did not catch , a single fish 
my daughter caught fish , 
his daughter caught fish , 
he caught fish . 
everybody but you . 
i was out on a party boat a few years ago , 
and we were grouper fishing , 
or actually we were snapper fishing . 
everyone on the boat was catching snappers except guess who . 
it had to be you . 
could n't catch one to save your life . . 
that 's right , 
i would go from one side of the boat to the other , 
and the party boat captain could not understand , 
even he started baiting my hook , and holding the fishing rod . 
how funny , 
and it was really , really , really bad . 
as i said , i am a fisher , 
i 'm not a catcher . 
but i enjoy it though . 
i do n't really get out as much as i would like too . 
we 're forty five minutes to an hour away from the eastern shore here in maryland 
and they do a lot of fishing there . 
of course what i used to like to do though is go snorkeling for scallops in some of the bays or for oysters . 
that would be fun . 
and that i was able to do , when i could go in and go down and actually pick them off the bottom . 
hand picked . 
that right . 
the weirdest fishing experience i ever had . people to this day are still trying to figure out if i really caught what i think i caught . 
we were in rockport , which is close to corpus 
and we had been fishing in a canal , 
they had all these canals up through this one little retirement area , 
and we 'd been fishing in the canals 
and all we were catching were catfish , 
and we were pretty bored with that . 
so , we thought maybe there are some crab in here , 
we 'll try to catch some crab . 
i had a rock to weight it down , 
something grabs and just runs with it . 
and of course there 's no hook , 
so it ca n't be a fish . 
i 'm sure it 's not a fish , 
and crab , they do n't bite like that , 
they do n't just run with your food . 
so , i netted it , 
and it was the ugliest fish i 've ever seen in my life . 
it had real teeth , like human teeth , 
and it looked archaic . 
i had no idea what it was . 
i called my father long distance just to describe the thing , 
and it had the rock in its mouth , not the chicken , 
but the rock itself is what it had grabbed . 
they say it 's a dog fish , from everything i 've described , 
it was brown with these little white dots 
and it made a loud , almost a croaking noise like a croaker does 
it was the strangest thing . 
i 'll never get over that . 
to this day i do n't want to get in the water , anywhere around salt water because i 'm sure one of those fish are there . 
i guess the weirdest thing i 've ever caught is in some of the inlets and the rivers around delaware . 
they have a fish that 's called an oyster cracker . 
i do n't know if you 've ever heard of it 
i 've never heard of that one . 
and it has a huge strong mouth , 
and they actually use their teeth to open oysters . 
that 's where it gets its name , obviously . 
and this is the ugliest , fish i have ever seen , 
i guess the largest one i ever caught was probably eight or ten inches long , 
but just huge , ugly things just terrible . 
can you eat them ? 
i do n't think i 'd want to even if you could if they 're that ugly , 
they just look as though you do not want to do anything with them . 
that 's like this dog fish , 
it scared me to death . 
it looked like it was something out of the dark ages that just never died . 
and i threw my line out 
and the first thing i caught was a sand shark , which was probably a foot , and a half or two feet long , 
and scared me to death . 
and then i fished for another half hour or forty-five minutes , caught a few white fish and so forth , 
and then i felt something relatively heavy , 
and i thought , here , i 'm really going to get one . 
on this subject , i really had n't had to deal with putting someone in there yet , 
but my mother 's always been administrator of a nursing home 
so i 've always been involved in one . 
how do you feel about them since you 've kind of been close to that . 
i can kind of see both sides , 
i really can . 
i would personally be the last resort if i had to put someone in there . 
i 've had a touch of experience . 
my dad had emphysema and got to the point where mother could n't take care of him 
if it 's a have to thing , 
and she put him in , 
but he was n't there very long before he died 
but i guess the one time that i saw him there as far as the surroundings , that seemed okay . 
but we kind of thought that maybe they just wanted to give him some medication to sort of keep him real out of it all the time 
and that 's always kind of bothered me . 
i kind of think that 's true , too because it 's so under staffed 
that 's like everything else , though . 
i have a sister-in-law who runs a nursing home , 
but i 've never actually been there 
and i know that she 's the kind of person who would n't allow a lot of the horror things to take place that you hear about . 
but still i 'm sure there are aspects to it that are n't really desirable . 
i know , 
my sister 's involved in one also , 
and i really think they really do a wonderful job . 
but still there 's those little things that happens 
i think , it 's a wonderful place if it comes to that if you just ca n't take care of them any more . 
sometimes you do n't have any other alternative 
that 's it . 
family 's tied up with their own lives and things , and usually working 
other things . 
but i think when the time comes , i hope to have the time to really look around and pick one that i really think my mother would be happy at . 
i think that 's important , too , 
i do too . 
outside 's awful deceiving sometimes . 
there 's one close to where my mother is , 
but in order to get in , you have to be able to walk in on your own , 
in other words , you ca n't be in too bad a shape to start out with . 
but then if you deteriorate they have a separate section for those who need care all the time . 
and they have a long waiting list , too . 
so there 's always this feeling of , you 've got to be able to walk in the door , 
so you ca n't wait until you 're too bad off 
off , 
but then , you do n't want to go do that when you do n't have to because you have to give up your automobile or whatever . 
and everything you worked so hard for all your life 
and if you 're still capable of driving and doing those things , then you feel like , i 'm isolating myself here for no reason at the moment . 
so that 's a hard one , 
but it is a very nice nursing home . 
there is some really nice ones . 
there 's also some private ones 
but of course , i would never be able to afford to put my parents in something like that , 
that 's the problem 
that 's way out of my reach . 
and another thing i hate to see is when someone has a small amount of money , and they go into one of these places and they just eat it all up immediately . 
but those who do n't have money can go in and get the same care . 
the very same , 
so i do n't like that aspect . 
they could put it in one of their children 's names or something . 
but still , a lot of them does n't feel comfortable doing that . 
it 's their money . 
that 's right . 
that 's how i feel about it , anyway . 
i 've talked to my mother about that several times lately , 
and i said , i want you to have control of your own business . 
my mother 's seventy now , 
so naturally she 's retired , 
but she 's still on her own , i mean . 
my mother 's seventy-five and still has her own home and everything . 
i think that 's wonderful , 
i really do , 
just as long as they can , 
and then on the other hand , i 've seen some people go into the nursing home . 
that 's true . 
they have a lot of people around to do things with . 
they 're not lonely . 
some of those places have wonderful activities and things lots of stuff going on . 
and they 'll take them places 
. i do n't know , 
it 's not all bad 
but i guess once you get ill , then you really have some problems if you ca n't get around and do things . 
around , 
but i really do n't know what the other solution would be , 
i really do n't . 
but 
when the time comes hopefully we 'll really look around before i decide on one for my parents 
really do , 
because i have been raised in one , 
so there 's lot of things i know to look for . 
and i do n't think they 'd want to go where they used to work , either . 
i really do n't . 
that might be kind of tough . 
it really would , 
and like i said , my sister 's still in it , 
and i really do n't think my mother 'd want to be there , either . 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
you too . 
and i guess we 'd better get back to work . 
what do you think about it ? 
how are we doing in recycling ? 
i think we need to do more . 
i know i need to do more . 
they come and pick up your newspapers if you have them bundled up . 
but i have a hard time of separating my trash , and get all the cans from the paper , 
and i just have n't gotten that dedicated yet . 
i do a lot of work with the boy scouts , 
and we try to do a lot 
but there 's still a lot more we can do . 
i do n't recycle my newspapers myself , 
but i noticed in one of the sales catalogs this weekend they have a clothes hamper kind of thing that you lay your string in , then you put your papers in there tie them all up and bundle them up , 
so i figured i might get me one of those because we do n't always read the newspaper . 
sometimes it just sits around for a while , 
and then we just chuck it . 
i do n't get the paper every day , 
i try to buy the early edition for the coupons the sunday edition . 
but , then i just bundle it up and put it on the front walk every monday or every other monday , and have them pick that up , 
but that 's the extent of what i 've done . 
i 'd like to be able to do more . 
the problem with a lot of it is , it takes a while to drive to these places where you recycle it 
it 's not always convenient to do it . 
and here in lubbock everything 's so close . 
i can imagine what it 's like up there . 
i 'm not exactly sure where the can thing is , 
i went out to payless cashways here a couple of days ago , as a matter of fact , and got me one of those little can crushers that i could put on the wall 
and then i put me a little five gallon bucket , 
and it 's just outside the garage door 
so every time we drink a coke or whatever we crush the can and just drop it into the bucket . 
do those can crushers work good ? 
i got one from payless cashways , 
and it 's actually metal 
it 's not plastic . 
i did n't want to buy a plastic one . 
because those things would just snap . 
but payless cashways has them 
and they 're metal , 
and i do n't know what affiliate of payless cashways you have up there , 
but it was only seven dollars , 
not too bad . 
i 'd have to check into something like that , because we do n't drink a whole lot of soda around here , 
but occasionally we have some around , 
but for other kind of cans , it 'd probably only take aluminum cans like that , do n't they . 
i do n't think it would crush steel cans , 
it 's pretty tough . 
so . i do n't know , 
i do n't think you have to crush the other ones for them to get to take that , 
but , i need to look into it more , 
sometimes , even with the newspaper they say they 'll only take certain types of paper , 
they wo n't take paper that 's shiny , 
i work at t i . 
so does my husband , 
we do a lot of recycling out there . 
now we recycle all our computer paper and our cardboard , 
but that 's just now come on board . 
we 've been throwing paper out there away for years , 
and we 're just now getting on board to recycling ever since this big earth day thing came out . 
i 'm sure they 're probably doing that here some . 
i 'm sure they are . 
t i is doing it pretty well nation-wide , i 'm sure . 
i think it 's necessary , 
i like it , 
i think it 's good that you see these boxes , cereal , 
they 're now starting to make the packages out of recycled paper , 
and i 've bought greeting cards that are made out of recycled paper , 
and i think they 're just fine . 
i got one at work that i bought for one of the guys there at work , 
it 's his birthday , 
we 're pretty good friends , 
and what it is is a recycled paper bag 
and it 's just got happy birthday printing on it , and a cute little phrase inside , 
and it 's just a paper bag 
and it 's really cute . 
but , i think we 're doing better and better all the time , 
i think we 're becoming more conscious because we just ca n't stick everything in landfills any more . 
there 's not going to be any room , shortly . 
i do n't know what new york does about theirs . 
i guess they still ship it out on barges somewhere . 
it 's probably sitting out on the barge somewhere . 
but i think we 're getting better at it 
i think there 's quite a bit more we could do . 
girls , put that away . 
now . 
but , you 're right sometimes it does seem like it 's more trouble than what it would be worth . 
i just wish it was a little more convenient to do , 
seems like you 're so busy anyway , 
and then that 's just one more thing to have to worry about . 
it sure is . 
i think if the cities , locally they 'd get more programs going so that you could do that , it 'd make it a lot easier . 
i guess the schools will get into it , too , sooner or later . 
get the kids interested in it too . 
we tried to have an aluminum can drive with the cub scouts that i have , 
and we just do n't have any place to store those kind of cans . 
if we go out and pick up a bunch of cans from people they 'll save them for us , 
there 's no problem there . 
but what do you do with them in the meantime ? 
that 's right . 
i do n't want a garage full of cans . 
that 's right , 
who does . 
people do n't have room for that kind of stuff . 
they 're not prepared for it . 
things like that , they just get bugs in them . 
they do . 
the more trash you have laying around the more bugs you get , 
that 's for sure . 
that 's right , 
i 'm pretty lazy about it right now . 
pick it up . 
myself . 
about the only thing i really recycle around here is aluminum cans . 
i need to get better at it . 
if we all try a little bit , a little bit goes a long way . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
if everybody tries to do just a little bit , and a little bit more then we 'll get there . 
that 's true . 
that 's right . 
thank you for talking to me . 
thank you for calling . 
no problem , 
take care . 
let 's see , 
i believe in the trial by jury . 
i think if it was up to the judge alone that there would be real possible for payoffs briberies unfairness , one-sidedness all those kinds of things . 
and i also like the unanimous decision because you have to persuade everybody to be a hundred percent , absolutely sure before you convict somebody . 
i really agree with the innocent until proven guilty theory . 
i think that 's a good way to do it . 
that 's about all . 
i think basically we 're in a lot of agreement in that i certainly agree that for any case involving serious injury to another person then maybe that needs some kind of legal definition . 
but for anything involving that , trial by jury certainly should be mandatory . 
it seems to me like there ought to be a means of , not having to take everything before a full court , 
is n't there a type of word called a jury duty now . 
and maybe instead of , just kind of blowing it off maybe we should commit to spend a week , 
and during that week you 're kind of an ad hoc , let 's hear about it , group of twenty-five instead of twelve 
and each case is presented to that group of twenty-five , 
and those cases are lesser degrees of magnitude , 
the guy was caught burgling , 
and he had his pockets full of stuff when he was caught 
that kind of stuff you can just turn to the judge and say , your pleasure your honor , 
and there 's not a lot of discussion about that kind of thing . 
but the way our court system works , that guy is going to have to hang around in jail or out on bail or something like that for an extreme period of time . 
i just think our system is overworked , 
and we 're starting to stretch the true meaning of right to a speedy trial . 
that 's a good idea . 
maybe this pre group of people could decide where they could go from there . 
do they need a big lengthy twelve person jury 
or do they need a six person jury or those kinds of things 
and the seriousness of it , 
how , 
is this open and shut like you were saying , 
or do you need somebody to go off for three months and try to figure out what really happened a jury like that . 
that could work . 
kind of off what we 've been talking about here i believe that we 've become almost a litigious society where everyone is very quick to sue or to threaten to sue and that kind of stuff , 
and although we supporting a whole segment of society called lawyers , maybe we do n't need to do that . 
and if you want to , your lawyer or your opponent need to go face this group of twenty-five or a judge like they have on t v 
good idea . 
and let either he or that group decide whether or not you have a real case . 
and let 's get rid of some of this harassment suing . 
that 's a good idea . 
in the bible it says if you have something against somebody , to go to them first , and if that does n't work , then to go get somebody a little bit more wiser and older and take them with you and go to them , and if that does n't work , to take it to the whole church . 
so that 's right off that same kind of principle . 
you bet , 
that 's a good idea . 
that 's true , 
that 's true , too . 
the way the whole judicial system and the government is based on that . 
it does n't work on that , 
but it 's based out of that . 
so that could work , 
i 'd forgotten what that 's called . 
there 's a real name for that like the judean law , or something like that . 
what is that called ? 
the judeo-christian ethic . 
judeo-christian ethic . 
that may be right . 
it 's in there some place . 
i think we both know that we 're talking about the foundation of our legal society . 
that was sort of the beginning of , ye shall be treated fairly . 
i guess the lord started out with , i 'll treat you fairly there as long as you do what i say . 
that 's sort of the old testament version . 
i know , 
i did a sunday school lesson one time on the difference between the old testament and the new testament where there 's a vengeful lord in the old testament and there 's a loving lord in the new testament . 
but that 's a whole different subject . 
i think we have exhausted my pitifully small knowledge on the legal system . 
mine , too . 
mine , too . 
but it 's been a pleasure talking with you . 
same here . 
what part of the country are you from ? 
i 'm living here in texas . 
in texas . 
i was just being curious . 
that 's quite all right . 
i 'm from the dallas area . 
so am i . 
that 's neat . 
in fact , i 'm at work out at lewisville . 
are you really ? 
i 'll let you go . 
and it was nice talking to you . 
my pleasure . 
have a good day . 
you too . 
what are some of your favorite foods ? 
i imagine in argentina you 've got some great foods . 
we got a lot of european dishes . 
we got what some people call the best beef in the world . 
so it 's bishu , 
every sunday you go out , 
and you buy all these parts of the cow , 
and then you just cook them over a grill . 
in our house , it 's already built in . 
there 's this whole special place in the back 
so you can make a barbecue . 
i 've had that meal in new york where they bring you a plank with all this wonderful beef parts of beef , cooked and barbecued 
and it 's marvelous . 
i have to find a place around here that has that . 
they have an argentinean place down in georgetown . 
i 'll keep that in mind , 
you serve that yourself , or for a family ? 
excuse me ? 
you ever serve that yourself when you have company ? 
the problem is , i 'm only twenty-two 
but when i 'm down at home 
and somebody says when are we having this , 
and i 'll cook it . 
you have to prepare the fire , and then put the sausages on , 
and then you put all these different meats which take different times . 
do you buy them separately at an american grocery store , 
you do n't go buy it from a wholesaler . 
but what happens is in argentina they have all these little places like the fruit stand , and the dairy , products and whatever , 
little butcher shops , 
i 've lived in mexico , 
so i know . 
and so they got the meat place . 
and so you just go there 
and , you ca n't find chicken there , 
you got to go to another place to find the chicken . 
you have poultry place . 
what dishes do you serve with it ? 
the turnover , 
the stuffed turnover . 
meat turnovers . 
i love those , 
and , then we also put sausages on a bun , 
and then that 's to start out with . 
and then what you have is also three different kinds of salad . 
and that 's about it . 
do you remember when you were in washington , sam the argentine baker ? 
it used to be in georgetown , years ago . 
he moved , 
i guess he retired and went back to argentina , 
i guess , in the early seventies . 
so that 's before your time . 
your parents might remember if they were here then . 
we were only there for two years . 
he was wonderful . 
we used to get the most marvelous impenadas and other argentine things . 
i have an italian roommate , 
i 'm italian . 
are you ? 
and being argentinean we also have a lot of pasta . 
because there 're many italians in argentina . 
and my mom makes what we call niokes , and all this stuff lasagna and everything . 
my grandfather came to the united states through argentina . 
this was around the turn of the century . 
actually a little bit later nineteen twelve , nineteen thirteen . 
at one point , one third of the population of argentina was italian . pure italians . 
i 'll tell you , 
i 'm of italian descent . 
my husband is chinese . 
and we both love continental cooking , french cooking . 
we do n't usually mix . 
if we 're entertaining we 'll do a chinese recipe 
and there are really easy recipe 
that is with chinese you always have several dishes . 
you can steam many of the things in a microwave . 
i do n't know if you have one . 
and if you like chinese food , you can take filet of fish and put a little bit of soy sauce and a little bit of sesame oil on top of it and chop some scallions and a little ginger and just cover it with some waxed paper and steam it just until the fish is done , 
and it 's a wonderful flavorful piece of fish . 
is it ? 
it 's like , when you go buy fish 
i buy the fish 
so you can do it in the microwave the breaded fish , 
and 
i 've seen the filet . 
buy a fresh filet of fish , a nice one at the fish counter . 
what kind of fish ? 
any white fish . 
sole is good , 
flounder 
sole or flounder is real good . 
and even grouper . 
so we put soy sauce and sesame . 
little bit of soy sauce and sesame seed oil . 
and , not too much soy sauce . 
some chopped up slivers of scallions . and slivers of ginger . 
and then just cover it and put it in the microwave for just two minutes , check it after two minutes to see if the fish flakes . 
and if the fish flakes , it 's done . 
do n't overcook it though . 
because i got , one of those little microwaves , the ones that take forever to boil a cup of water . 
do you know what hoi sin sauce is , 
it 's that sweet chinese sauce ? 
i do n't . 
if you go in a chinese store ask for hoi sin , h o i s i n . 
wait , 
wait , 
wait , 
h , 
h o i , 
h o i , 
s i n , or s e n 
s i n , 
either way they 'll spell it . 
hoi sin sauce . 
it 's a very sweet dark , sort of a purplish plum sauce , purplish brown . 
you can even put a spoon of ketchup in , 
and that makes a great pork dish with a sort of a spicy sweet sauce , that you can serve over rice . 
how much pork do you buy for two people . 
for two people if it 's american style , i buy a half a pound . if you 're just serving that , 
but if you 're serving another dish with it with guys pretty healthy appetites , i 'd probably go a third of a pound 
i could probably go half a pound . 
so , it 's just , since i 'm from argentina , i just love meat . 
you can also do the same thing if you have ground beef . 
just stir fry the ground beef . 
drain off the oil . 
use the same hoi sin sauce and some of the frozen mixed vegetables . 
just stir that in 
and you 've got another dish . 
and how much does it cost ? 
the hoi sin sauce ? 
a dollar twenty-nine a can . 
a can would serve you for quite a few meals . 
i thought it was maybe five fifty or something . 
it 's not expensive at all . 
it 's one of the chinese cooking basics . 
listen , 
it was good talking with you . 
same here . 
hope you enjoy your recipe . 
thank you . 
the first thing what do you think you would offer as far as information about selecting a school ? 
first i think they 've got to have a pretty good idea of what they want to do . 
once they have that , then they can start looking in all the various publications that give out all the information about schools and write to the schools themselves , and start finding out about the different requirements for the programs and what kind of job assistance and all that other kind of stuff they offer . 
depending upon the field , i know there are some fields which a person should go to that school , all four years , 
but i know there are some fields where it 's really not necessary . 
most of your liberal arts degrees and stuff are n't really concerned with your first two years anyway . 
it 's your core education , your general education requirements . 
if they want to get a liberal arts degree , i do n't know what advice i 'd give them . 
go to the school you 'd like to go to . 
that 's what i did . 
i did n't care about the program or anything else . 
i went where i wanted to go . 
what was your degree in ? 
political science . 
political science , 
i 'm going to school right now , 
and i have a friend , 
where are you at ? 
u t d . 
university of texas , dallas . 
i guess , everybody 's in dallas that i talk to . 
i 'm in , north carolina . 
i know . 
that 's where texas instruments is . 
i think that i 've noticed that 
i have a friend , 
i think if you 're going into law or medicine , a very particular , very specific field , even engineering , you can meet a lot of the requirements at a public institution . 
and it 's a lot cheaper . 
my parents made a mistake in sending my sister to a private institution for the first two years . 
and she found out after that , 
she said my parents , they really wasted a lot of money . 
this is about twenty years ago . 
as far as selecting a school , i feel that a lot of it depends upon the major . 
it does . 
i did n't know what i wanted to do after i got my degree . 
originally i had planned undergrad degree in political science and then a master 's in public administration . 
and i went ahead and pursued that . 
i got as far as the thesis , and decided , to hell with it , 
i did n't want it . 
and from that point i went to law school . 
and after a year and a half of that i decided i did n't want that either . 
have n't figured out what i want to be when i grow up . 
but i really did enjoy the law . 
that 's where i wanted to be , 
but i did n't want to go through the hassle that the law schools put you through , because i never did want to be a practicing attorney . 
i just wanted a law degree . 
and i 've since discovered that i would be far better off being in the paralegal field . because that 's the nuts and bolts of the law , and that 's what i like , 
and you do n't have to put up with all the b s that the lawyers have to . 
so that 's what i 'm pursuing right now 
and i 'm pretty happy with it so far . 
i 'm pursuing what 's called an interdisciplinary field . 
i 'm a speech therapy major 
and fortunately i have a good medical background , 
that 's probably very useful . 
it 's actually turning out to be more useful than what i thought . 
and i also have a good languages background , linguistics . and some psychology . 
it 's all working together . 
the only field i 'm not familiar with really is education , which requires about four or five different fields really . 
i thought at one time i wanted to be a teacher , 
but i quickly dispelled that idea when i became a substitute teacher for a while , just to get my feet wet . 
i said i could n't do this everyday . 
maybe being a tenured professor would be one thing , 
but being a public school teacher is entirely another thing . 
you are a disgruntled graduate student . 
i am just a disgruntled person all around . 
i 'm the , original mister scrooge , i guess . 
i think law would be a fine profession , fine field to go into . 
i know one time i was in a political science class , 
and talking about fields , people going into different fields , i made an off the cuff remark about lawyers , about their integrity being questionable . 
and that was like a can of worms . 
you probably got everybody on you , because they were probably all going to law school . 
there was a woman , 
she said my best friends are lawyers and all this , 
that remark in itself is a slam . 
my best friends are lawyers . 
i know . 
my best friends are blacks . 
or jewish , 
it used to be jewish . 
jewish , 
now blacks 
i know , 
law was a lot of fun until you get to law school 
and it does n't become fun anymore . 
i have a friend . 
she 's going into law , 
another friend going into law , 
what 's going to happen when she gets there . 
all of her dreams will be dispelled . 
if you 've ever seen the program paper chase it 's very much like that , except worse . 
i think it 's probably more embarrassing and very painful . 
it is . 
i see that happening . 
very much so . 
it 's a lot of that . 
it was enjoyable for a while , 
but it 's such a grind 
, you really have to be dead set on being a lawyer to do it . 
if you have any doubts whatsoever , you better not get into it . 
and i aged ten years . 
but i would n't trade the experience for anything in the world . 
it never hurts to have some kind of a grounding in law . 
i went to a language school , 
and it was an united states institution . 
i was military at the time . 
what branch were you in ? 
what branch were you in ? 
i was in the air force ? 
i was too . 
for myself i think that military experience was fine , 
i got tired of the service after a while 
it , 
i had a terrific job , really enjoyed it . 
what was your job ? 
command post . 
i was a linguist . 
i was just wondering , were you in sac by any chance ? . 
were you in sac ? 
in tak ? 
sac . 
i was n't . 
i thought maybe you might have had some experience with the r c one thirty-fives . 
i did n't go flight crew . 
matter of fact , i did n't make it completely through that field . 
i , was in intelligence school and about three weeks short . 
i did n't make it , 
i sort of washed out . 
after about eighteen months of talking about the year and a half training it 's something , 
they actually should do some reading 
that 's right , 
and if it 's possible even get some experience at it or at least watch some people do it . 
and they should study it . 
i think there 's a lot to be said for kids working after school . 
they find out just how much of a people person they are . 
that 's true , 
i found that out when i was in high school . 
i worked at mcdonald 's . 
and i tell you what , 
i worked at mcdonald 's as well , 
and i can tell you one thing , 
and i eventually worked as a lab technician , 
and i worked front desk . 
and somebody could walk in the door , 
and i knew exactly what they were going to do and say . 
i was the same way too . 
i 'm not a people person . 
i hate having to play such a nice guy especially when it 's all phony . especially when you got some jerk coming in . 
it 's just not for me . 
i deal much better in research and books , and stuff like that which is why i 'm going to enjoy the paralegal field a lot . 
that 's good . 
i do n't think that it 's wrong for a company to require drug testing for certain types of positions . 
for instance , jobs that require use of heavy machinery and things like that where there 's , endangerment to their own life and other people 's lives . 
i agree with that . 
people that are driving like truck drivers and things like that . 
i definitely think they should be tested . 
and i 'm not opposed to any testing . 
how do you feel about companies drug testing prior to hiring ? 
i was tested within my company . 
i think it 's kind of a push to weed out drugs in states 
because i do n't know of any other countries that are doing this 
and i feel like it 's really just within the united states . 
it 's okay . 
i think your record should stand for itself . that if you 've been tested at other companies and you 've always come up negative or whatever , then i do n't see what the big deal is that they have to go to all the expense of testing you over and over and over . 
and once you 've established the fact that you 're not a drug user and especially if your personality proves that you 're not . i think they could save money by not doing that every time , 
if you change jobs you would n't have to do it if you 'd just been tested at your other work place . 
what about random testing , though . 
do you feel like that 's an invasion of certain people 's rights if not everyone is tested ? 
not if it 's done fairly . 
and that 's probably my question is , how do you know it 's done fairly . 
i do n't know that you do . 
if it 's random , then it 's random 
and that 's not necessarily fair . 
they might tell you it 's random . 
but then it 's kind of like a lottery . 
somebody in their lifetime may win millions of dollars where another person does n't win anything , and tries and tries and tries . 
i know that , for instance , in the n c double a , they drug test 
and it 's not random . 
i see . 
how do they pick their people ? 
i think all college players have to do an initial drug test at a certain point prior to the season 
and from that point on the n c double a does have something to do with it , 
but it 's almost discretionary on the coach 's part of each individual institution to identify the ones that have the problem . 
i see . 
and the ones that test positive have to retest after a certain period of time . 
do you think that should be implemented in the work place 
as a manager or supervisor thinks or has suspicion that someone is using drugs , do you think they should have the right to send them to be tested . 
not being a drug user i do n't have a problem with that personally 
but i think that might be a violation of someone 's rights . 
if someone 's having personal problems for some reason that 's causing them to behave differently 
and their manager assumes they have a drug problem 
if someone assumed that of me , i would be upset . 
it 's an accusation , 
and it 's based on a perception that someone has as how a drug user would behave when some drug users behave normal . 
and then how would you feel afterwards when you came up negative and your supervisor has accused you of using drugs . 
i think almost the only way that drug testing can be done fairly is if it 's across the board from the janitors to the executive management . 
i agree with that . because i know personally myself , i 've been in the same job for three years , 
it will be three years in august 
and i 've already been drug tested three times . 
what type of job do you have ? 
i 'm an environmental engineer 
and i 've been drug tested three times 
and i know many people that have never been tested in their lifetime 
and the company i work for is sixty thousand people , plus . 
so for some reason , i 've come up three times . 
that 's pretty high statistics . 
does your job require you to drive company equipment or to operate any type of machinery that might endanger someone ? 
not at all . 
it 's a legal job 
so it 's really strange . 
that is odd . 
i was drug tested not for the job i have now , but for the prior job , 
the job i have now , requested my , medical record from my old company 
so i do n't know if i was n't drug tested based on that or because the man who hired me did n't request the drug test , because i know that my company does drug testing on occasion . 
for instance , does the company you worked for before have the right or do they have the ability to say we 've already drug tested her 
and she came up negative . 
they do n't know that i do n't use drugs . 
they just tested me once . 
but , i used to work for a power company , 
so it was very important that they make sure their employees , especially linemen were clean . 
and since i was just one of the office folk , i guess it was n't as important to them that they test me regularly . 
but i know they test most of the service people fairly regularly just across the board . 
and are they tested random ? 
it 's a rotation . 
i see . 
but again , it depends on what job you 're in . 
the men that are out there fixing power lines are tested a lot 
and the men that drive the trucks with the guys that fix the power lines are n't tested as much . 
but they make that clear to them as they hire those guys what the drug testing schedule is . 
i see . 
they say we 're testing you tomorrow 
and we 'll test you every three months thereafter while you work here . 
so they know that . 
it 's made very clear upon hiring . 
have we spent our at least five minutes ? 
i think so . 
seven twenty-five . 
nice speaking to you . 
nice talking to you . 
is it doing a good job or a bad job 
and you got to divide it two different categories whether you live in the city or whether you live in a more rural place like i do . 
and are you talking about public schools being lower level , high school level or state school . 
kindergarten all the way up to high school . 
but you 're excluding high-level education . 
i am . 
i do n't think there 's so much of a problem there . 
it 's pretty much funded well . 
there are small colleges that i 'm sure are struggling 
even a bad school is a good school up here , where , if i lived in new york city or washington , d c i would seriously consider moving if i had a child . 
i would n't let them go to a public school system there . 
but , of course , people are trapped economically 
and they ca n't do that . 
i do n't know , 
i moved to arkansas and texas after living in ohio 
and the schools down here rate bottom ten percent across the country 
and having been through grade school up there and coming down here to high school i can understand why . 
because they 're so far behind and so poorly staffed , half the time the teachers do n't know what 's going on . 
that 's really too bad because it 's giving some people unfair advantage . 
our high school up here is like a junior college in florida 
what we learned . 
that was my experience going through junior high up there 
when i came down south for high school i was just repeating what i 'd already done . because we were so far advanced . 
and i 'd been in a parochial school before junior high 
and even the public schools are behind the parochial schools . 
so i like the concept they 've got now where they have more directed education , 
you pick a career path 
or you get counseling earlier 
and then you learn the things that help you rather than spending four years learning the same things over and over . 
they talk about it 
i live in a big metroplex 
and some of the better parts of the metroplex , the suburbs that are richer have those kind of target schools . 
it 's like if your father owns a grocery store and you 're really interested in that , there 's no reason that you should take college prep courses when you can get some general business courses in high school . 
or if you 're going to go the science route you can go to a target school that specializes in science or art . 
i 'm an engineering student 
and if i have to go take art classes i 'm not going to use them . 
and through high school i could have gone so much further if i 'd gone to a school that was directed . 
that 's true . 
i was fortunate . 
i 'm a technician 
and we had a vocational electronics in our high school . 
in high school . 
so when i went to my first year of tech school , i had a very easy time because our high school had a good program . 
i think the schools today they 're just overrun , 
they do n't know what to do , 
there 's too many kids and not enough teachers 
and too many of the kids do n't care . 
i find that in the cities , it 's more like the kids go there so socialize not really to learn 
and the parents send them there because they 're supposed to , 
plus it gets them out of their hair . 
and i also find that you can send a kid to school , 
but if do n't work with them as a parent , i think you 're putting your child at a big disadvantage . 
and there 's some kids that want to go learn , 
but most of them just want to go play . 
or maybe they 're unemployed 
and they 're mad at the world , 
i can see where that would n't be very good for a kid , 
he 's coming up , will you help me with my homework 
and they 're , get away from me , 
i 've had a terrible day . 
so , it 's got a lot to do with economics in the area that you come from . 
that 's true . 
not at the moment , 
but a lot of the industry 's moving southward . 
are they going to move to mexico ? 
i do n't know about that , 
but a lot of the industry up in the northern states is moving south 
and i 'm wondering if that 's going to have any effect on what you see now . 
we 're behind down here . 
i say we because i live here . 
that might not turn around in the next fifteen , twenty years . 
maybe they 'll bring their good schools with them , 
if the industry comes hopefully they 'll promote good schools . 
because i know the town that i come from the large i b m plant has something to do with the top rated high school because of their tax base for one 
plus for the type of student that 's going to that school , it 's going to raise the level of the school because your parents are engineers or chemists . 
you 're most likely to do better in school . 
they 're going to help you . 
you hope . 
you hope . 
i do n't know . 
i just think it 's a duty of the parent to do that . 
my parents always helped me 
and , i do n't know , 
it 's just like you say , 
it 's the way you 're raised and the economic situation you 're in . 
i can see some lady , 
she 's twenty-one years old 
and she 's got four kids . 
her first grader , 
i do n't see where she 's going to have much time for them . 
so , i do n't know . 
i guess you just have to wonder , 
who 's supposed to make the change , 
the state , the federal government , 
where 's the money supposed to come from . 
i do n't know . 
actually , i think it should be the city level and a system level really to find out , and to see what they need and not overinflate it , 
what do you advocate , 
more taxes or better management of what they got ? 
if the teachers are getting six percent raises every year when people in industry have been getting cut back , and you 're getting raises every eighteen months you got to go wait a minute , 
we 're in a recession here . 
our town did n't pass the school budget this year for the first time in many , many years just because people are in the recession 
even though we 've enjoyed very good employment here for the past ten years , now we got eight percent unemployment when it used to be four or five . 
people are going , whoa . 
starts hitting closer to home . 
it 's all money . 
a couple other topics we had talked about was crime . 
it 's all money based . what you can do unless you just get down to the parent level 
who knows , 
maybe we need some more catholic schools , 
support the church instead . 
they seem to have done a , good job in the past . 
in some places you could n't go to a public school . 
it was miles down the road 
and the only school you could go to was the baptist school or the catholic school 
they 're a lot more strict . 
you have to learn , 
you are n't given the chance to screw off all the time . 
i do n't know if i would do that to my child , though . 
i do n't have any good ideas or anything that would contribute . 
this is n't a subject that i think a lot about because i 'm never faced with it because our school system in vermont , it seems to do a really good job . 
the only reason i asked about secondary schools or advanced education is because down here going to the university of texas , the education i 'm getting is kind of shoddy for a public school . 
is it ? 
i do n't think i 'm getting what i should , 
but in texas , it 's next to free because they pay so much of it . 
it 's state supported . 
but at the same time it 's not like going to m i t . 
my engineering degree will be nothing like somebody coming out of m i t . 
and it 's really too bad 
i do n't know , 
i think it just builds on the foundation that they 've already built . 
you get people out of high schools and junior colleges that do n't have the background for an m i t kind of curriculum . 
so you have to go to a lesser engineering school . 
we have a very good public school up here 
and a degree out there means a lot . 
it 's a very good school . 
it 's university of vermont . 
we also have some two year college . 
there 's a four year colleges . 
they all have a pretty good reputation . 
do you think we should adopt it ? 
i do n't like metric system . 
you do n't ? 
i think the country is , too ingrained in the inches just the general background , 
the history of our country has been inches 
and i do n't think there 's a big advantage in going to the metric system . 
it 's going to disorient and confuse a lot of people for years and years 
and there are going to be people who die because of it because they do n't understand simple things from the amount of medicine they should take to how fast they can drive and how far away something is 
and it 's not in our national consciousness to do it . 
we 've always measured things in the english system and everything , 
our land is in acres , 
our people are n't going to understand what an amount of something is . 
i agree with you . 
i do n't think we should either even though i know there are benefits to the metric system , 
i do n't think the benefits of the metric system outweigh the disadvantages that would happen to the people in america 
i do n't know 
it seems almost like it 's a peer pressure thing is why we keep wanting to do it is so we 'll look good to the other nations 
because i think that 's an area that the other nations look down on us like we 're just backward wayward children who still use this backward system , who have n't really attained it yet . 
and i feel it 's just pride of . 
and it 's we 're content with this . 
it 's probably not as accurate , 
probably intellectually does n't , 
it 's not as sound intellectually , 
but , like you said come on . 
i had six years of college 
and i do n't know the metric system 
and i do n't care to learn it 
and i 'm not some kind of an idiot , 
we have a computer for just about everything now 
and if it 's necessary to translate back and forth between them , it can be done 
because i 'm a mechanical engineer 
and i 've had to work when i was designing packages for people , 
i had to work both systems back and forth 
and it was not hard 
and you can get a cat cam system that can take any design you want 
and you can push a button 
and it 'll convert every measurement on there from one system to the other in seconds . 
there 's a lot of people , 
you 're educated , 
i 'm educated , 
my husband is , 
but a lot of people are flat not educated 
and if i have a hard time putting that into my life , can we put that off on the other eighty percent of the population that does n't have any college 
but a large percentage probably over half of the rest of the population they do n't have any college probably much at all 
and if we ca n't take it and use it easily how can you put that on elderly people and just people that maybe just are n't blessed with as much sharpness and mental acuity , 
i think it 's still good they do cover the system . 
i think it should still be taught in schools . 
and they do , 
even when i was in elementary school years ago we learned what a centimeter was and a decimeter and basically the other alternate forms of measurements , things like that . 
and that 's acceptable . 
i think it failed , too , because what you said 
this is ridiculous . 
the thing americans have so much stress on them right now . 
if you look at the average family it 's , like they barely have time to stop and get gas , much less to try and figure out how much gas they 're really getting and do all this . 
it 's come on 
let 's take the pressure , 
you know you need twenty gallons , 
but do you need how many liters . 
and it 's just like another thing 
the american family does n't need any more pressure . 
just leave them alone , 
let them measure their drinking water in cups 
and leave them alone . 
and it just does n't make that much difference in the average life 
and the scientific community and places where it 's needed that 's fine 
we may not be the top , 
i do n't know if we 're the top , 
we 're one of the top superpowers of the world . 
it may be arrogant , 
but let them come to us . 
that 's kind of the way i feel about it . 
we can convert , 
and if they do n't like the way we do it just do n't worry about it . 
it 's kind of like expecting everyone to suddenly speak german . 
it is 
because it is another language , 
and , instead of saying the world speak german we found out that we can translate . 
and that 's what i think we ought to do with the metric system . 
that 's funny . 
well , that 's good . 
i think we kept it . 
is that all we need to say ? 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
you , too . 
i think that was good . 
that was the best one . 
usually i get distracted off the topic . 
you know what i mean . 
one man was telling me about his grandfather in lithuania , 
and we were talking about income tax or something . 
good talking to you . 
anyway , i appreciate it . 
have a good day . 
there we go . 
i think the weather lately has been a bit warmer than i would expect this time of year . 
i think that 's true . 
the bermuda grass is greening up in march , and sometimes does n't really start doing that until the first part of april . 
so i think we 're a little ahead of schedule on that . 
i was out in my yard yesterday afternoon , 
and i noticed all that grass coming up , 
and i thought , ooh , 
we 've got to start this mowing bit soon . 
that 's true . 
it 's been a fun break , 
but the break is over . 
the last couple of weekends have been nice and sunny . 
but it seems like every time at work i look out my window it 's gray . 
but i 'd rather have a sunny weekend than a gray weekend . 
i go for that , 
in fact , i 'm a little worried about this one coming up here . 
we have a long weekend 
and , it sounds like it 's going to be a little bit on the cool side . 
i have n't heard whether it 's going to rain or not . 
i think there 's an eighty percent chance this evening , 
but it 's supposed to be cleared out at least by noon tomorrow 
and then the rest will be without rain . 
that 's good . 
but i think the highs are going to be in the sixties , and the lows in the forties . 
that 's getting back to a little bit chillier . 
that probably is a little bit under what it is for this time of year . 
i have n't seen the weather on the news in the evening lately , 
but i think the average high should be about seventy . 
i 'm not certain either , 
but you 're probably right . 
i like it when it 's sort of a medium temperature maybe seventy-five to eighty , somewhere in there . 
i do n't like it when it 's too cool or too warm . 
i 'm much more apt to get things done when it 's at that sort of in between temperature . 
that 's true . 
one of the remarkable things about the weather in the summertime here is that quite often the average daytime high of ninety-nine degrees is within five or six degrees of the all time record high . 
and what that tells me , is that the summer weather is very predictable , that it does n't vary very much . 
you 're probably right . 
any other time of year , that 's not the case , because it could be very warm or very cold . 
as a matter of fact , i heard the weather the other day on t v 
and i think it was one day this week a year ago 
they said that we had a freeze and some kind of bad weather 
it was n't just a super bad storm , 
but it was that sort of thing that we never like to see in the late spring time . 
one of the weirdest things i saw was a twenty-six degree lightening storm . 
i was going into the grocery store , 
and a lightening bolt was almost directly overhead , 
and it was twenty- six degrees out . 
and i thought , i 've never known it to lightening at that temperature . 
that is pretty unusual . 
and you really take notice of it , too . 
that 's right . 
it probably was a lot warmer up high . 
sometimes they get those inversions , like when we had that twelve and a half days a few years ago that it never got up as high as freezing . 
the air temperature at five thousand feet was fifty degrees . 
the cold weather was just simply trapped along the ground and could n't get away . 
i do n't like that super cold stuff . 
i just do n't move very well when it 's that cold . 
i 'm really enjoying this now . 
this has been interesting . 
not too challenging to the brain . 
not a real in depth topic , 
but enjoyed talking to you . 
ellen , 
you have a good day . 
are you a player ? 
i think i am . 
it 's been a while now . 
has it ? 
just recently i got married 
and we bought a house . 
we 're about fifty yards from the golf course 
but unfortunately the house is taking up my time . 
so it 's been almost a year since i 've actually swung a club for a purpose . 
i have n't played in about two years , 
and then i went out two weeks ago with the guys here . 
i work at t i . 
and i played in a tournament out there , 
and i shot a net fifty-nine . 
they were kind of , little upset . 
i guess i laid off long enough to get rid of all my bad habits . 
i have a hard time inventing shots . 
let 's go around this tree , and try a slice through a hook here , 
and i ca n't do that 
i finally got out , 
and i 've been watching quite a few videos . 
i had not been able to play 
so i took out a few videos and watched them for a while , 
and i hope i 'm on the right track . 
shot a career low eighty-nine , 
and my handicap is twenty nine . 
that 's great . 
i like that . 
now like i say , it 's been a while for me , too . 
i 've got my wife motivated about it , 
and i think that 's probably going to be one of the next investments , is get her a set of clubs 
and we 'll get out of the driving range and get some interest built up 
and hopefully we can start in . 
i bought her a set of clubs four years ago . 
she has n't even swung them , 
but she wants to get into it now after i came home and won the tournament the other day , 
she 's ready to get off into it , 
that 's good , 
but i just like getting out , being in the outdoors , 
and i 'm a hunter and fisher anyway , 
same thing here . 
at least i can get out and play a few hours of golf 
and it 's not going to cost me an arm and a leg , really . 
and i walk , 
i do n't ride 
i get a little exercise there , too , 
i 've got the same attitude . 
i tell you , 
i guess , the first time i played golf has been probably about eight or ten years ago now , when i was in college . 
and i took it as a p e course and then kind of left it alone for a while , 
and then finally got into it while i was still in school 
have probably a thursday night bachelor party and a friday golf day before the wedding . 
that 's back in south dakota where i grew up 
so that 's been my main involvement , is it seems like i go home and play golf more than i do around here , 
but eventually i get people to come and visit me in dallas , 
and then i 'll show them we can play golf in the middle of winter when we ca n't do it back home . 
it 's pretty nice . 
we played out here a couple of times in the middle of the winter when my parents came down and what not . 
they were amazed . 
here it is , sixty-five degrees , 
we 're out playing golf , 
and they 're freezing cold back there , 
but , actually i picked it up when i was in high school , on the same as a p e course , 
when i got into the service i got into it 
and now when i come out here i just kind of let it go , 
and then one of the guys mentioned to me at work one day if i played golf . 
and i said , , 
i 've got my clubs , 
but i have n't swung them in quite a few years . 
and then i got into it and then back out of it , 
and it just seems like every couple of years i get back in there . 
that 's right . 
i really enjoy it . 
it 's really nice . 
it is , 
it 's a lot of fun , especially if you can find somebody that 's got the same level of interest . 
that seem to be the hardest thing . 
that 's true of any sport . 
you do n't want to go out and get beat to death , 
and people do n't want to play with somebody that they are going to beat every time 
and then we 've got some guys here that they are four and five handicappers 
and they do n't like to play with me because i 'm too slow for them , 
but get somebody around your own handicap , 
and you can just mosey on out for three or four hours and have a good time . 
that 's right , 
never yet have i walked up , 
now i 've walked up a few times on the golf course by myself with nobody else to play with , 
and never yet have i met anybody on the golf course that would n't allow me to join their twosome or threesome . 
that 's true . 
they are always friendly . 
that 's true . 
come on out , 
and they do n't mind if you make a mistake , 
it 's pretty nice and friendly out there 
that 's so . 
and you ca n't find that in all sports . 
that 's absolutely right , 
you get in a rut if you do play a lot 
but you play with the same people , you are n't going to learn anything . 
after a short period , once you learn everything they 've got to offer , then you 've basically tapped your resources there . 
but eventually i 'd like to work up and maybe get involved in a mixed doubles league , or something like that . 
we have one down here in the summertime . 
it runs from five o'clock to seven thirty or eight o'clock because it does n't get dark until nine thirty or ten . 
and we play in the summertime out here . 
we get a mixed league in , 
and that 's what i 'm trying to get her ready for . 
it 's going to start when we change time back whenever that is next month , 
and it will start then , 
and we had a lot of girls out there a couple of years ago , 
and they were just starting to learn , 
and they were shooting a hundred , hundred and twenty 
now they 're down into the hundreds nineties , 
so , it wo n't take her long , 
that 's good 
that 's good , 
that sounds like a lot of fun . 
and it 's something we can do together , 
so . she does n't do much hunting , 
she could care less about that . 
she does a little fishing , 
but golf would give her the exercise , 
she 'd be outside , 
give her something to do that we both enjoy , 
it sounds like we 've got real similar situations . 
i 've gone home every year now since i 've moved to dallas to go pheasant hunting , 
and the last time i took my wife along 
and kind of the same situation . 
she 's up in the house and talked to my mother the whole time we were out hunting and stuff , 
but she 'll make the trip for fishing if that comes along , 
but it 's interesting , 
bowling you feel bad if you bowl a hundred . 
you do n't have to be an expert to play , 
that 's right . 
any novice can pick up a club and learn how to hold one and learn how to do it and do it right . 
so you do n't have to be an expert in any aspect of it at all . 
that 's right , 
i 've kind of formed the attitude that if i could pick two or three shots out of my game every time and put them together on one hole , then i do pretty good 
and i keep rationalizing that i can do it , 
i just got to do it all on the same hole , 
and then it will get better , 
and you just keep going , 
and in the meantime , just enjoy what you 're doing . 
it really works that way . 
and when i first got back into it , i used to get mad because i knew i could do something 
and i did n't get it done . 
and i need to slice this ball around here , 
i naturally slice anyway , 
now the ball will go straight 
i never broke a club or anything , 
but i 'd get upset about it sometimes , 
and now i guess being in my forties , i just kind of mellowed out a little bit . 
i do n't get upset any more . 
and that 's great . 
i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
you bet . 
i guess i 'll go back to work . 
sounds like it . 
see you later . 
and you 're talking about credit cards . 
we put ours up . 
i had a delightful evening one night cutting a bunch of those suckers up . 
i wish i had . 
you should try it . 
it was done for me after a while . 
i had a business going . 
and this was back in the eighties . 
i do n't know if you remember the gold and silver prices and all that . 
but i had a coin shop , 
and everything was going great while gold and silver was up , 
and it started falling . 
so i started paying expenses and stuff on my credit cards , 
and things got worse and worse , 
and finally . 
you lost your business ? 
what a nightmare . 
it was . 
it was one of those things , 
it 'll get better next week . 
things will pick up . 
and , so , there i was in old bankruptcy court . 
you were n't charging gold and silver were you ? 
you ca n't do that , can you ? 
you can ? 
i was buying from other dealers , 
and they take payment any way they can get it . 
that 's a nightmare . 
course on merchandise that i was buying on cards , i was getting the money back , 
because i was selling it . 
i was n't buying just to hold onto it . 
but it was things like rent and phone bills and advertising and all that other good stuff that ate them all up . 
when you graduate from college they 'll send you all those credit card applications , 
of course you fill them all out because you 're honored . 
and i had stuff for sanger harris , 
and it got up to couple of hundred dollars , 
and i thought , that 's okay , cause all they wanted was ten dollars a month . 
i was n't thinking a thing about it . 
that 's the way they suck you in . 
i was just stupid , 
and every time they had a sale , there i was . 
because get such good bargains . 
and i do n't know . 
just today in the mail i got my guaranteed acceptance by american express . 
we 've been getting those . 
i went back to school and got my master 's , 
and they started sending those things to me again . 
as soon as you 're a graduate student they get your name . 
they did . 
and course , i guess i 've been purged from their records . 
i used to have an american express . 
back when i had my business i got one . 
and they goofed up bad on my very first bill , 
because i was using the american express strictly for the travel expenses . 
and the bill would come in , 
and i 'd pay it . 
and the very first bill , i paid it , 
and then i got this nasty letter from them saying , you 're overdue , 
pay . 
so i said , it just crossed in the mail . 
so i did n't do anything about it . 
two weeks later i get another letter , even nastier , 
and said , we 're going to turn this over to our attorneys if you do n't pay . 
and i looked at that , 
and i said , uh-huh . 
so by this time my checks had come back from the bank . 
so i made a copy of the check that they had cashed attached it to their letter , and sent them a nasty letter with the card cut in little bitty pieces , saying thanks , but no thanks . 
turned out they were n't cheeky . 
they were , 
i tell you . 
they do n't talk about they 're charging that enormous fee every year . 
so what is it now ? 
it 's up to fifty-five on the gold card . 
it 's eighty-five for the optima . 
or 
what do you mean 
fifty-five ? 
you mean fifty-five dollars ? 
for the green card . 
but then , what 's the interest ? 
that 's the card . 
and interest is like eighteen or something . 
of course on the green card you have to pay it when the bill comes in , 
so there is n't any . 
let 's see , 
it 's not too bad . 
it 's about sixteen and a half percent , which is pretty good , as far as credit cards go . 
credit cards . 
they 're dangerous . 
my parents do n't hardly use them . 
mine do n't either , 
mine do n't either . 
my mom has a mastercard and a visa card , 
and that 's it . 
i 've got all my gas cards , because i do n't want to carry money around . 
i 'll do that . 
i do use gas cards . 
impact is kind of bad too , though . 
especially if you forget to record those little suckers . 
plastic is just too easy , 
that 's the whole problem with it . 
and you 're tempted if you 've got cash , a little bit of cash , and you do n't have enough for the purchase . 
of course , you got to charge it and keep your cash . 
naturally . 
i got into all kinds of trouble doing that . 
what are you saying ? 
my husband says i might buy it , 
but i do n't really usually consider that an option . 
having been out of the credit game for some years now , i 've gotten used to either paying in cash or not getting it . 
maybe that 's how we got in trouble . 
but it 's hard , is n't it ? 
it is , 
but , i 'm kind of grateful for the experience because it 's taught me a lot of restraint . 
it makes you feel good when you whip out the cash instead of your plastic . 
i just went out and got a new v c r yesterday with cash . 
with cash ? 
do you work with t i ? 
i wish i did . 
you could have got a discount , could n't you ? 
i could use a discount . 
i have to wait for things to go on sale . 
but there 's always a sale . 
especially on electronic goods 
especially now . 
what is that thing i saw , 
circuit world or something . 
circuit city . 
circuit city . 
have you been in there ? 
their prices are n't that terrific . 
they used to be , 
but they 've got to pay for all that national advertising now . 
it 's national ? 
i think i 've seen two around dallas . 
they 're all over the country now . 
what else , 
they used to be good . 
i remember when they first opened up . 
they did have good bargains . 
or you probably have something similar . 
we call it service merchandise . 
in garland . 
you got service merchandise . 
it used to be service merchandise was the place to go . 
and circuit city came along 
and that was the place to go to get your t v -s and washer and dryers and refrigerators and all that . 
and then after the years went by , they just sort of kept creeping up on price , 
and actually service merchandise is cheaper than them now . 
so much for circuit city . 
what else can we talk about ? 
who do you work for ? 
i do n't , 
i 'm a graduate student . 
i 'm a professional student . 
sounds wonderful . 
it is . 
we were talking about that just today . 
it 's great . 
we could be just lifelong students . 
it is great . 
i love it . 
where are you going to school ? 
n c state . 
what 's that ? 
north carolina state . 
so you 're on spring break ? 
not yet . 
ours does n't start until next week . 
so where are you ? 
where am i ? 
what do you mean , where ? 
in raleigh . 
little , 
the burgeoning metropolis of raleigh . 
what a dead place . 
is it ? . 
i 've got a nice little business at home , 
and i sit around and tinker with that most of the time . 
so what are you getting your degree in ? 
human factors . 
and what do you do with it ? 
not a thing . 
what is it ? 
it 's really looking at systems and design systems and seeing how people interact with them . 
it 's sociology . 
it 's more psychology and engineering . 
my master 's is in industrial engineering . 
so you 're working on your doctorate ? 
p h d in human factors . 
that will sound wonderful , wo n't it ? 
get you a little plaque . 
a lot of people use human factors , folks , 
but i b m is what i 'm looking at right now . 
are n't they laying off several thousand people ? 
they might be , 
i heard it on the news today , 
i could swear it was i b m . 
as a matter of fact , the i b m in carey , which is a little suburb of raleigh , just hired one more human factors person . 
doggone it , 
if they 'd just waited a little bit longer it could have been me . 
i 'm going into the , dissertation this summer . 
how much longer do you have ? 
and get that done this summer ? 
i 'm going to start this summer . 
i probably wo n't finish it until the end of the year 
but i 'm trying to get a intern position with i b m right now so that i can find an area to do my dissertation in . 
it 's hard finding an area to do a dissertation in this field . 
why ? 
there has been so much work done already ? 
that 
and , it 's limited application in some respects . 
in the area that we 're in here , there 's a lot of places that use human factors people . 
what kind of car are you thinking about getting ? 
none at the moment . 
when you decide to . 
i currently drive a ford taurus . 
and i would imagine that if i change or if i get another car , a new car , i will go with the taurus or something similar in that regard . 
so you like the ford ? 
i have had it for about two years now 
and it 's everything it 's supposed to be . 
i have n't had a minute 's trouble with it 
it 's a taurus , 
even after two years , i still feel uncomfortable driving it , because i had a honda before that 
and so it 's a little bit larger . 
but that 's the only difference that i see , really . 
my criteria at the moment it would be , american personally , 
the car i had before this one was a thunderbird as a matter of fact , 
and i loved it , 
i really did . 
but i finally decided to go check out what the , foreign cars were . 
so i bought myself a nissan a two forty s x . 
but even though i love the car i 've got now , i think my next car will probably be american again because if i can at all do it , i 'd like to stay american , 
i always have , up until now . 
i just for one time decided to go outside . 
my wife still has a honda accord , 
and it 's an excellent automobile . 
but , price and so forth , 
i 'm not a real car fan . 
i do not opt for something that would be expensive , 
i want something that 's serviceable , something that i can use 
i have a taurus l x , 
you 're talking when you think about price , it 's several thousand dollars lower than the comparable honda or nissan or something along those lines . 
and as i said , as far , it has been extremely serviceable and everything i wanted . 
ford 's done a real good job in the last ten years or at least the last five to six years , of really turning around their quality , i think . 
i think so too . 
i 've driven chevrolet automobiles and dodge , 
if it 's chevrolet , i just will not touch it . 
i had a chevrolet before i bought my taurus . 
i purchased a chevy citation . 
those were not good cars . 
and i was ready to get rid of it two months after i bought it , 
so i shopped around , 
and if i had thought i wanted to pay the amount of money , i probably would have gone with an accord or even a civic , or something comparable from nissan or toyota , 
i have a friend who has an auto shop , 
and he purchased one of the first sables that was manufactured for his wife , a sable station wagon , 
and he just absolutely swore by it . 
there was no comparison . , 
the only thing that i find if i would have anything against it is that it still has that soft american ride . 
that 's about the only thing i find disadvantageous to it . 
but , my criteria , is simply something that looks good , something that 's serviceable , 
and i drive around a lot , 
and it 's very comfortable on the highway . 
i can drive for ten hours or so and not really be tired in any way . 
but those are my criteria , 
and i probably in another six months to a year or something will probably start looking around again , 
and if there 's something out there that is comparable to what i have now , i 'll go ahead and get it . 
i just bought the nissan that i 've got about nine months ago , . 
at the moment i 'm single , 
and if i were to get married and have a family that would have to have something to do with it . 
but i do n't have any plans for probably another two , three years of even looking . 
cars are too expensive right now to even think about buying new cars every couple of years 
in our parking lots two or three days ago i saw one of the new honda sports cars . 
i ca n't remember what the name is . 
it 's the thirty-five or forty thousand dollar one , whatever it is , 
and it resembled a mazaratti very , very closely . 
and it 's an absolutely beautiful automobile and well appointed and so forth , 
i ca n't conceive of doing that . 
i went to a car show down here about two weeks ago , 
and of course they had , the ford , the chevrolet , that stuff . 
they had ferrari there , 
they had b m w and all these other kinds of cars . 
and ferrari did n't even let you near the car , 
that 's how expensive they were . 
and then you saw hundred thousand dollar cars , 
you saw eighty thousand dollar cars , 
and even though i do enjoy cars , , i ca n't see paying more for a car than i would for a house . 
that 's true . 
that does n't seem likely . 
the difference there too is between us is that i am not really crazy about driving . 
i never have been , since my parents had to force me to get my driver 's license when i was young when i was sixteen . 
so i 've never really cared . 
before i was married and before i went to graduate school , i used to do little sports car racing . 
it was never my own car 
it was always someone else 's . 
and that sort of thing i enjoy , 
but to go out and drive never has really had any appeal to me in that regard . 
. i guess we 've discussed that enough do n't you think . 
i think so . 
we wo n't get the recorder or the system to shut us off tonight . 
that 's happened to me once , 
it 's very easy when you get on a topic that you enjoy . 
i think the one time i did it was on the mid east , the crisis out there . 
that had a great conversation , 
but then they came off and told us we could n't do it any more . 
i was talking to a lady last evening , 
and we were talking about fishing , 
and we were cut off , 
we were told to quit . 
you have a pleasant evening . 
you too . 
take care . 
i understand that it 's being proposed as a requirement , for young people to go into public service . 
all young americans , 
they did not specify exactly what young means . 
i think that it probably would be a good program . 
i think probably two years is too long . 
i think maybe a year would be , the longest . 
you 're probably right , 
two years might be a little too long . 
and there will be a lot of rebellion in that 
and when you get people who have no desire to be there in the first place , i do n't think that they 're going to be serving anybody . 
that 's right . 
that would be the problem . 
sure would . 
so i think it would be a good thing though , to encourage other people who are n't even aware that they can do such a thing . to get out there and do so . 
or maybe offer them some sort of an incentive to do it . college credit something , 
i 'm not sure what 
i 'm not sure they need to be paid , a salary of any kind . 
but that kind of takes away from public service . 
that 's right . 
they probably could n't do anything monetary , 
i 'm not sure that would be a terrifically good idea . 
and i 'm not that familiar with them to know , 
i 'm not either really . 
that 's right . 
you know , 
that 's right . 
and most kids these days have gotten themselves into financial situations , where they have to be working all the time . 
that 's right . 
they need , young families , whatever , 
so , it 's a really tough question . 
that 's right . 
they just could n't take off to do that . 
and , if you put them in public service right out of high school , then that postpones their college , for a year 
that 's right , 
and that would upset a lot of people too , because they just want to get on , 
it sure would . 
it would have to be a lot of thought given to something like that , i would think . 
i think it would be good for a lot of people to get involved in that kind of program , 
but i think it ca n't be something that 's mandatory . 
it has to be something that 's voluntary which is pretty much the way it is now . 
that 's right . 
i 'm not even really sure at this point in time what programs are out there . 
and that 's the other thing is that instead of making it mandatory , they maybe need to publicize it a little bit better . and go to the schools and do programs , and tell them that we need your help , and volunteer for such and such a time , 
and you 've a choice of where you want to go . 
and handling it that way they could probably get some results out of it . 
in their own community , 
that 's true . 
most of them probably would n't do something like that . although there are a lot of kids who would do it just to get away from their parents . 
that 's right . 
that 's true too . 
that 's true too . 
but , they would have to be supported in some way , 
and i 'm not sure that those programs are available to do that . 
me neither . 
and , you wonder what kind of quality job would they do , 
just sit around for their year , 
or would they really make a contribution of some kind . 
it 's tough . 
it 's tough . 
it is tough . 
and i do n't know who 's even proposing it , or how they plan on implementing it , if they do . 
i 'm not sure either . 
but , i think , there would have to be a lot more information disseminated , before you say , let 's do this . 
i think going to the schools would be the easiest for them . 
it would take up more time than anything 
but it would n't take up a lot of money . 
they would n't have to spend money advertising and things like that . 
that 's right . 
you go to school 
and you have a kind of a captive audience , 
get them all in the auditorium , 
and you give them your speech and maybe a little slide show or something , 
and , i think , that they could get some results from that , because there are a lot of people who are volunteer and community minded , 
but they do n't know where to go to do anything . 
that 's right . 
that 's a real waste too . 
it really is . 
it is . 
it really is . 
i do n't really see the emphasis on things like peace corps , like we saw back in the carter administration , 
that was a big thing with him . 
and , as a matter of fact , i guess kennedy may be the one that actually started the thing , or was really interested in things like that . 
i just do n't hear much about it anymore . 
like i say , i do n't even know what programs are even ongoing now . 
i do n't either . 
that 's one , 
anyway , it 's a tough question . 
it is a tough question . 
thanks for your time . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
same here . 
take care . 
you too . 
i , assume you have kids . 
we have one . 
she 's only nine months old . 
she does n't have to worry about public schools yet . 
my degree is in teaching , 
we have a little bit of a basis for conversation . 
i was a substitute teacher for about a year . 
i thought i wanted to be a teacher 
but before i went through all of that i wanted to see how i was going to like it . 
in alabama , where i came from they allow you to substitute if you got a four year degree . 
so i went out and played substitute for a while and decided , not for me . 
did you teach in all subjects or in all grade levels 
i just took grades one through six . 
i thought i was going to be smart and get the good kids , 
wrong . 
my degree was in fourth through seventh grade 
but i taught junior high . 
and i expected it to be a lot of trouble 
but it was n't that bad , 
i taught remedial reading kids . 
and they do n't call it remedial reading these days , 
they call it something else . 
but , at the time that 's what i taught . 
and you kind of group your behavioral problems together 
but it was n't too bad . 
we got long real well . 
i sometimes wonder if i did n't mess up . 
i maybe should have taken the higher grades because at least , if you have to you can get mean with them . 
those little kids do n't understand it . 
especially with the real young ones . 
i started out wanting to teach lower primary and then top primary and thought , i do n't like this as much and ended up moving up and got up until about the sixth 
and so that 's what i got my certification in . 
but i had decided long before i was even married that i wanted to , if possible , teach my kids at home and not put them in the public schools . 
and my reason for that was i do n't like the varied inappropriate influences that you find so much in the public schools . 
that 's a nice way of putting it . 
you can find a lot of good public schools if you look real hard 
but i do n't think they could cover everything that you could teach , your children on an individual basis . 
and too , most people do n't have that option . 
i 've seen some districts where all the schools are lousy 
it does n't matter what you do . 
accept for the private ones , of course , 
we 're talking about public . 
i do n't know . 
back when i was going to school you just did n't get away with the things these kids get away with now . 
you pulled stunts like that and you were down at the principal 's office and usually bending over to get five of the best , 
but nowadays they can barely scold the children for something without getting sued . 
and the crime is just escalated and the drugs and , even in the lower schools . 
the thing that really did it for me , i was subbing in a fifth grade class 
and this kid comes to school with his lunch box 
and inside this lunch box he 's got easily two hundred to two hundred and fifty dollars in one dollar bills . 
and i asked him what are you doing with that ? 
and he says , `` my father gave it to me . '' 
and i did n't believe it for a minute . 
not a lot i could do about it . 
ca n't stop the kid from bringing money to school if he wants . 
i 've , 
i think i understood what the kid was doing 
let 's just say he was one of those types that you would n't doubt that he was selling something . 
but not a lot i could do about it . 
i was eighth and ninth graders that i worked with 
and if we did have a student come in and they were drunk or they were on something you had the option of calling the police and have them taken out of the schools or trying to teach them something while they were there . 
and you do n't know if you were reaching them or not 
but we felt like maybe just going ahead and trying to teach them was better than have them taken out . 
that does n't do a lot for them . 
it , alleviates your problem 
but it does n't do anything for them . 
some of them were even better behaved . 
i 've only had two instances where it was really noticeable 
i do n't know if was alcohol or something else that they were on 
but it ended up better 
i do n't know , 
guns 
and , i do n't know 
it 's something . 
i think there 's a problem too with teachers trying to be so versatile that they do loose sight of the basics , 
they 've been a big drive especially in the seventies to return back to the basics . 
just teach the basics in schools 
but i think there does need to be a reemphasis of those because , of our lower grades in the standardized test and such . 
it 's indicative across the board that we 've done something wrong . 
and here we are 
we ca n't balance a checkbook without a calculator . 
i do n't know . 
i spent a year and a half in japan also 
and i 've seen how their school system works 
they go by a complete rote system , 
you just memorize everything . 
and then at the end of a certain time period you spitted everything back out 
and the better memorizer you are the better your grades are going to be . 
so i do n't completely agree with that either . 
but there definitely needs to be a balance somewhere . 
that 's a great deal what law school 's like . 
is it ? 
is that what you ended up going into ? 
and i did the same sort of thing , 
you sit there and read hundreds and hundreds of cases 
and then you get one examine for the whole semester 
and it 's how well you can remember it all . 
how much can you stuff in your brain . 
and i found that a particularly useless way of studying . 
i never did . 
i always tried to understand things , not tried to memorize . 
and consequently some of the very best students had excellent memories 
but they could n't put two and two together as far as the law was concerned . 
it did n't show me anything . 
a year and a half , i gave it up . 
i did n't want to be a lawyer anyway , 
just wanted the degree . 
i do n't know . 
what can we do about it ? 
good question . 
money is not the answer . 
there 's plenty of money in the system , 
they 're throwing more money at it now than ever before 
and things are getting worse . 
i think it 's like a lot of things in the united states . 
we 've got so much built up in the , bureaucracy and in the politics of it , 
and in the power plays that it needs to be pulled down and started over again 
and there 's no way that , that can be done . 
not without wiping out a whole generation of kids in the school system , 
maybe on smaller scales . 
i do n't know 
as much as i did n't like school when i was going through it , from my perspective now i can see that it 's a lot better than what we have now . 
and i think part of it is that they 've got to give authority back to the local school . 
it 's silly that these people are handcuffed when it comes to discipline . 
right into the classroom it needs to be able , to be enforced . 
teachers are so afraid now of even saying something , to students because they 're going to get complaints or they 're going to get sued or something . 
it 's like doctors in lawsuits , 
they 're kind of fearful of , everything . 
lawyers help create that . 
at least i 've heard that 
i have n't fortunately been in a situation where it 's , been applicable to me 
i think , what we 've turned the school schools into now are just day-care centers 
we 're going to send our kid here for seven or eight hours a day 
and he 's out of our hair . 
and the other part of it is parents have quit becoming parents . 
it has to be reinforced in the home . 
you can have the best school system in the world 
if you do n't get anything at home then it 's not going to help either . 
so , i do n't know , 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know what the answer is . 
it 's an interesting thing you want to do . 
how is texas about keeping your children out of public schools , 
do they allow it ? 
they allow it under certain circumstances . 
you have to prove that you 're teaching them something . 
you have to follow , a preferred curriculum , 
they try to encourage you to follow a specific curriculum , although you do n't have to . 
and then if you have particular religious beliefs they 're kind of monitored . 
i ca n't think of any examples 
but certain religious groups do n't want their children in public schools because the influence . 
and maybe they were a group of mennonites or something like that . 
i do n't think they were in this area 
but they are monitored by the state school board . 
that 's interesting . 
i remembering reading a few cases about that when some people first tried that 
and they got sued . got taken to court by the school system . 
i 'm glad the parents won . 
that 's the way you got your education in this country . 
as a matter of fact this past weekend , since we had a long weekend , i took on a painting project in my bathroom 
and i had wallpaper up , 
i had to completely strip the wallpaper off and then spackle holes and then paint that 
and it took me all weekend 
because the wallpaper , getting it off , i had to wet the walls down 
and that had to dry . 
and then the spackling had to dry a day 
and then the painting took another day . 
you did n't try rewallpapering ? 
i just painted . 
did you use a textured paint 
the wall behind the paper was smooth 
so , i just used a semigloss . 
did you get good results ? 
not really . 
it looks so , bad 
you can see where those spackling marks were . 
i need to either paper back over it or do something . 
but it did n't cover it ? 
it covered the spots pretty good 
but it just did n't look as smooth as i wanted it to . 
we moved last august 
and we 're getting a house , 
my house had this dark wood paneling at the end of the den 
we went to one of the paint stores 
and they just said , you can get by , 
and i . 
more or less . 
after about , uh , half dozen coats it looks reasonable 
it was just a real dark wood grain type paneling 
and it was smooth 
and we put this stuff on 
and it supposedly textured it or did something to it 
but because of the dark behind it , it was really hard to cover 
was it like a primer ? 
it was something like that , 
although , when we got through i wished we had n't done it 
because we were trying to make the house look nice to sell it 
the job was considerably tougher than we thought . 
i was talking to somebody else who had a lot of wood panelling 
and they had gotten somebody to come in with an estimate 
and it seemed like it was a good sized den with a lot panelling 
and the people quoted thirty thousand dollars to paint it or something . 
that 's an awful lot . 
have you tried getting outside estimates to see what it costs to have something painted ? 
not inside . 
when we bought the house that we live in right now we had a company that came out and painted it . 
that was one of the requirements from f h a that the house be painted before we bought it 
and it was fairly reasonable . 
we have a brick house 
if i remember right , it was like five hundred dollars . 
that 's quite reasonable . 
so that was n't too bad . 
have you tried matching paint lately ? 
i have n't . 
we built a shed over the long way , 
this is not on the topic 
but i did finish it . 
but my wife went to the home depot and took a piece of brick 
and she wanted to paint the shed 
it 's a wooden shed , 
and she took it 
and they 've got this machine that matches the color of paint . 
they mixed a gallon of it 
and it 's just remarkable how close it will match the paint , 
and it does it electronically . 
so , they did do a good job ? 
but it 's electronic . 
you put your sample under this thing 
and it 's really remarkable . 
and then they wanted some gray to do the trim . 
this is sherwin williams paint or something 
but . it 's remarkable . 
you want this to look like this 
and you want that to look like that 
and , of course , if it 's all white you 're all right 
have you had problems getting colors to match ? 
as a matter of fact what we 've got ours painted now is kind of a light creamy color and a blue 
and the blue , even two years later or so it does n't match , 
it 's the very same type of paint and everything , 
what 's the solution then ? 
i have no idea . 
i repainted the whole thing . 
at least you 'll get very good at it ? 
you could go back and paint , the whole thing over 
this is an interesting topic that they would bring up painting 
i 'll just do a little bit here and a little there . 
we painted the house to , 
we painted the whole inside 
and it had all this dark trim . 
we did the one wall 
they do n't do that in the newer houses now 
the mold , everything is white . 
in a new house everything is white . 
white , 
that 's what we 're trying to get ours to look like . 
good luck . 
we wound up selling the house . 
it does , 
it 's interesting that the white makes the rooms look bigger . 
in our down stairs in our dining room it has molding like picture frames that are along the walls up a couple of feet . 
and my wife painted the insides of those dark blue . 
i see . 
and it makes the room look remarkably smaller . 
. she painted the insides dark blue and then the trim , what color ? 
the trim , is still white . 
the molding 
white . 
and she did that all the way around the room which makes it look very attractive , 
it explains why they have everything white 
what about the lighting ? 
did it make a big difference ? 
not particularly 
because the house has so many windows 
the living room has four good size windows 
and of course , at night 
we have a soccer field that 's about a hundred yards from our house 
and the lights shine right at our house . 
we did n't know that when we bought the house 
the color does n't really matter because you have that light . 
we have a lot of light , 
and i think it 's just the dark blue to about three feet 
and then above that we left it white 
so . it did n't change 
i see . 
but the interesting thing is that paint we wound up having to go back and scrape some of that away 
you have to do that very , very carefully . 
and it takes a long time , 
that 's right . 
you can work yourself to death . 
i 'm sorry to hear your color did n't come out so good over the weekend . 
no kidding . 
it 's kind of frustrating . 
it is . 
a lot of work , 
a lot of work . 
i 've got to go to a meeting . 
it 's been good talking to you . 
nice talking to you . 
i do n't know . 
i grew up in the sixties , 
and at that time it was a changing time for the whole music scene , i guess 
and i grew up with the beatles and the rolling stones and the whole pot culture during that time and went through that phase and kind of stayed with it for several years after i graduated from college and thereafter but have since , 
i grew up in a small town in southern oklahoma 
i have kind of gone back to more of a county flavor in music . 
i 'm not quite sure why that is 
and it seems like almost a opposite , 
but i guess i got away from what i consider to be the pot sounding music . 
it did n't have what i was looking for 
at the time country tells more of a story . 
it kind of reminds me of my roots of growing up 
and i 've become more of a country fan over the years . 
when you say that you grew up in the sixties i take it that was the teenage type years 
that was my teenage years . 
i was born in fifty 
we 're very similarly aged , 
so we probably have an interesting perspective on the music on the times , 
so i 'm just a couple years older than you , 
essentially i was one of the nerdy types in high school really which meant that for one reason or another i did n't pay much attention to music , 
but as i look back now i realize it was very formative for me , 
my early popular music interests were in simon and garfunkel , whom i saw perform when i was in college 
and i became attached to that style of urban country if there is such a thing , 
i think in a way one could talk about simon and garfunkel that way because they do tend to have a dramatic or story approach to their music usually tend to have some good or bad moral to it . 
over time i became very interested in baroque classical 
and i think that was just through experiencing contacting college and the fact that i found it very relaxing for me . 
my tastes now run to a upbeat simon , 
it 's something that interests me combined with the classical tastes i had mentioned . 
and my classical music tends to be confined to the seventeen hundreds , early eighteen hundred music . 
i 'm not particularly schooled in it . 
i know what i like to listen to as far as classical music . 
and i spent a good deal of time listening also to people from the late seventies , really neil diamond , for instance . , people of that particular time , 
that 's kind of the way i am . 
i listen to some country and western 
but i 'm not schooled in it 
and i 've enjoyed the times when i have listened to it . 
i played a little bit of piano . 
i continue to do that . 
i want to do it 
and i never have the discipline to stay with it , 
but when i do play and begin to reacquire skills i inevitably fall in love with country western music which tends to be in some ways easy to play for a new piano player . 
it 's got basically an easy rhythm and tone . 
and it 's easily something to fall into . 
i 'm kind of the say way , 
i 've gone through different periods of life in music from pop to classical . 
i guess one of the things that influenced me was that i 've worked in radio stations as a d j for all my college years trying to support my way through there , and , was support , 
i was influenced by all different kinds of music but basically because that 's where i worked . 
and i 've developed a real love for classical music in , probably junior high and high school because my band instructor was heavy into classical type music . 
he said he used to sit on saturday mornings and watch cartoons just to hear the music that they were using behind them because they used a lot of classical music behind the cartoons 
and so consequently we wound up playing a lot of classical music there 
and i think that got deep seated into me . 
one of things i especially like now in music regardless of what kind it is are those that call on those classical roots , i guess , 
barry manilow comes to mind 
for some reason there 's not a whole lot of his stuff that i 'm real crazy about , 
but he does have some things . 
chicago had some things , 
and i think even electric light orchestra had some real influences by classical music 
in fact most of my c d -s are classical music . 
i find it very interesting that some television shows that i enjoy i particularly like the music . 
i do n't know which is chicken and egg in that situation . 
i have connections but not particularly deep ones to the vietnamese war type situations , 
and i found that i really like china beach 
and i particularly like tour of duty 
and both of them , i had as much fascination of the background music going on as i did to the theme of the shows , 
and , thirty something i 'm particularly interested , 
but it 's the music , almost that i find myself listening to , 
our generation was so in tuned to music of that time that we identify goodness or badness now with the music that 's behinds them . 
that could well be . 
i think the title of it was just downtown , 
and if you recall how it goes downtown , 
all i have to do is hear that song 
and i get strongly evoked memories of difficult times in school being behind on work , 
and my family now knows if they come into my study and i happen to have had a tough day at work and maybe i 'm trying to get a project done at school and i 'm humming or whistling in a sort of mad crazy way the tune to downtown they know to just stay away , 
that 's their signal . 
they can hear the unconscious music signal behind it , 
that 's right . 
when did you first take your first piano lesson ? 
probably about first grade , 
and i have returned about every four or five years to thinking that i would like to do something about it . 
i usually get to the point where i can play some of my favorite themes 
and then inevitably i am swept away by the pressure of other types of things , 
it is a time consumer . 
it is . 
i always think that i 'll be able to do it 
and then i inevitably discover that i have no innate music talent relative to composition and that i struggle and really ca n't quite understand what 
keys and things are something to me that remain a mystery no matter how many times i bang on them . 
i have a pretty good mathematical concept for what 's involved , 
but in a innate music sense there just seems to be something missing there which is always frustrating for me since i have pretty high math aptitude 
and i keep thinking , i thought that all the math and music people are supposed to go hand in hand 
but it does n't for me . 
it 's making that connection especially with the mechanical parts of it . 
i was never able to master all that . 
in fact my brother and sister both , they were thirteen , sixteen years older than i , 
they went through the parent thing where you 've got to practice or you 're not going out to play , 
and when it came to my turn the folks said we 're not going through that again , 
they sold the piano , 
and turns out i was the only one who really had an interest in it and never got to , 
that 's one of things i felt like i missed in life 
in fact one of my favorite things to do now is sit down and listen to chopin , that is played on piano . 
i can just drift off into some other world just listening to that for hours if i ever have the time to do that , 
i 'm kind of like you , 
maybe one of these days i 'll get around to it , 
i 'll do something with the piano , 
but probably not . 
so we both have a secret background that says somehow or another we just knew we were piano players and never got a chance , 
just never got a chance to come out . 
that 's the most fascinating thing . 
it 's a pleasure talking with you . 
and you , sir , 
best , of luck in your graduate school . 
take care . 
you take this subject much more personally than i do , i suppose . 
take it back , thirty years 
i 'm going back too far , from my parents ' generation when mom stayed home , period 
if you were educated you might teach for a year or two before you got married . 
and if you really pushed it , you taught until you had kids or something , 
if you were a teacher . then that was it , until the kids were little . 
you were n't supposed to want a job . 
there 's not supposed to be any reason to use this education or this brain that you might have for anything other than your house and your children and how clean can the bathroom floors be on any given day . 
and then of course today it 's supposed to be all the other way . 
you 're supposed to only want the job , 
and , your kids should be totally happy in day care , because everybody else goes to day care 
and we have these wonderful people who are totally prepared to teach your child everything they need to know in day care 
but , a really good day care is probably going to cost more than you 're going to make at the job . 
and we 'll see how the generations go . 
at least for a lot of women depending on what she did . 
i was mechanical engineer with t i , 
and i did it for six years 
and for one , 
i had one while i was pregnant , 
and then one while my oldest was a year old , 
and it just drove me crazy . 
so it was you and the kid 
that 's the thing , 
maybe if you get along 
for example if you 'd been a technician instead of an engineer . 
the technicians work the eight to five job and know when they 're going to be there . 
might have been better . 
but if you 're going to be more professional oriented , then , to be able to perform well on the job you 've got to have the flexibility that does n't really go with the family . 
in my case , i just decided that , as long as my kids were little , i would be better off at home with them , instead of driving myself crazy trying to do everything at once . 
so you figure one of these days you 're going to go back to being an engineer ? 
is that what you 're saying ? 
actually i 've found out that i 'm not going to go back to being an engineer . 
i 'm a photographer now . 
you 've found something else . 
i have branched out . 
i was a photographer before , 
but when i went to college i felt like i could n't support myself if i decided to be a photographer that it would just have to be a hobby , 
and i 'm very mechanical , 
and mechanical engineering interested me , 
so i did that . 
and then i did that for six years . 
and then i stayed home with my son , and did nothing . and found out that it was great , 
but i was bored part of the time , too . 
and i wanted something else to do , 
you figure there 's got to be more to life than sitting here playing with this child . 
it 's great while they 're really little , 
he goes to a mother 's day out program now once a week . 
both of my kids do , 
and so they get the socialization with other kids , and not really school , but a different authority than mom , once in a while kind of learning how to deal with society . 
and they need that to be able to relate to other people besides the same person every day . 
i think they do , too . 
and i need it for the break . 
that 's the other thing , 
they talk about women leaving the home and going out to work , 
still taking care of the children is a very important job . 
and someone 's got to do it , and be able to do it right , 
and if it 's not mom then dad or somebody 's got to move in there and do the job , because the kids really need it . 
and enjoy it , 
that 's the whole thing . 
i think that 's the thing that we 're going to see , 
i think the biggest thing we 're going to see coming up in the next ten year is that there 's going to be a lot of women , 
and they 're going to have to work it out to working part time . 
because if i had been allowed to work maybe thirty hours a week instead of fifty hours a week , i might still be working basically full time or part time , if there had been some way to work it out , 
because , i liked my job really well . 
but i was just pulled in so many different directions 
it was just driving me crazy . 
and now , with the photography , it 's working , 
the thing that i 'm doing is taking school pictures in day cares and in mother 's day out programs , and also soccer teams , and different stuff like that . 
so my kids can be in day care for a few hours a week , 
or my husband when he 's at home , can take care of them . 
so jobs have to become more flexible . 
i think they 're really going to have to , 
and not just for mothers , for fathers as well . 
it 's going to have to be both . 
so that 's another thing that has to adapt is the father 's attitudes about whose job is this . 
it 's his job too . 
to me the only important issue is the children , 
because as far as housework goes men can do housework just as easily as women , 
and thanks to a lot of new inventions , housework does n't take as much time as it used to . 
it 's just convincing your husband that that 's important , or that it 's important enough for him to do it . 
because if he saw mom doing only that all the time he was growing up then it 's hard to think of it that i should do it or just to think about doing it rather than having someone tell him to do it . 
you talk , 
i know that was a big thing in our house for a long time was that if i wanted my husband to do something to help , and even though we were both working the same number of hours , and doing things , i had to come in there specifically and say this needs to be done , 
this is what you do it now . 
and a man might say out loud , i understand this 
and i agree , 
but still he was raised with a mom taking care of him 
and that 's a very hard attitude to change . 
and it 's just they do n't look at things . 
most of the men do n't walk into the kitchen and see that the dishes are there and that you probably ought to unload the dishwasher and load the new ones in and run it . 
they just scoot it on another spot on the sink and put the next plate down , and in a while get around to it . 
and i think most women walk in and with , oh , got to clean all this up . got to get this out and this in and this taken care of , instead of having someone say this is the time this needs to be done , 
and a lot of that is how it was drilled into you when you were a kid . 
which brings us back to the idea someone 's got to be there taking care of the kids to drill in the right ideas to , so that they know that male and female are both responsible for doing this 
that 's right . 
and i think that 's going to show up a lot more now , in the next generation of boys and girls . 
the boys in this next generation are not going to have to be told as much this needs to be done , because mom was there saying that dad is there , 
they were both working at whatever things needed to be done . 
they 're going to say to the kids you need do this , because it needs to be done not because it 's a woman 's job or a man 's job , but because it 's dirty and it needs to be clean . 
but i think in between we got a generation of kids who did n't learn to take responsibility because mom left to go get a job and dad did n't move in to fill the gap . 
and so , basically no one was taking the responsibility 
and i think that 's happened in a lot of cases . 
some kids are really having it . 
some time day care is really good , 
but sometimes , it 's baby-sitting . 
it 's someone keeping an eye on the kids 
but the kids are basically doing what they want and not really having any relationship with the adults to say here 's what 's right 
and here 's what , 
and here 's what we expect of you . 
i think that was one of the main reasons that i quit , was because i wanted my kids to have my values , 
this is the way i feel about this , 
if you teach them when they 're little the way you want them to be , and the things that are important to you , then you add onto it as they get older . 
but if no one does anything when they 're little , then it 's twice as hard as they get older . 
i 'm saying this as i 'm trying to keep my nine month old from trashing something . 
i understand , 
i wait until i put mine in bed before i make my calls . 
she 's usually in bed by this time , 
but she 's staying up late tonight . 
i want to have a relationship with her . 
my dad was a very traditional dad , 
and when i was a child i did n't really know my dad very well , 
and i miss that . 
that 's the thing , 
like we said , if women 's roles change drastically , men 's roles will , too . 
but men have to be convinced of that . 
and a lot of it 's for the better . 
some of the women 's roles are almost for the worse , because we 're losing out on some things , going back to work , 
i know mine almost never did ... 
how about you . 
do you use p c -s ? 
constantly . 
you and me both . 
it seems everything i do is computer related . 
and if it goes down , then we 're stuck all day . 
and so i like the i b m p c , personally . 
but that 's pretty much everything i 've worked with 
and i 've become so accustomed to it that it 's second nature . 
what do you use ? 
i have an , i b m p s two , model thirty . 
it 's kind of getting too slow for me , 
but my job , i 'm an e d p auditor , 
so i audit computer applications both on the personal computer and the mainframe level . 
and i use my personal computer constantly , 
not only do i do p c type things like using lotus or word processors , 
i also use my p c to emulate a mainframe terminal for our i b m mainframe and also to emulate a deck terminal for our deck machine . 
so all i have on my desk is my p c , 
but i 'm getting , not only our local area network , 
but i 'm getting two separate mainframe machines , also . 
so we use an i b m p s two also . 
and every now and then the file gets so big , that it moves slower than i 'd like 
but i do mainly graphic work on it . and a little bit of word processing and then lotus applications to it . 
and i do n't know , 
i enjoy working with them . 
there 's so many capabilities out there , 
the things you can do are endless . 
i 've become kind of the p c guru in our audit department because it 's mostly financial auditors with an accounting back ground , 
and there 's three of us e d p auditors 
and one of the three of us has an accounting background 
and so she 's not real proficient in p c 's 
and the other just has , not used p c 's that much , 
so i ended up taking on the load of making sure everybody knows what they 're doing 
and i 'm the administrator for our local area network . 
and i need to keep that going 
and , so , i could n't live my life without a p c . 
i do n't have one at home , 
we have one at home , 
but i just do n't find the time that i can use it . 
right now i would rather not have one at home , because i would work at home . 
we 've got a couple of portable lap top p c 's at the office that i end up bringing one of them home a lot , to do work . 
if i had a machine already installed at home i would probably work just about every night . 
one of the reasons why i got mine , was before i went on maternity leave , they did n't know how they were going to do without me at work because , i am pretty much the guru , in the office with the different programs and any trouble shooting that there is , 
so they did n't know how it was going to work , 
they knew they were going to have to get a modem in the machine in my home , so that we could make it through this eight weeks or so . 
but it 's almost like we could become too dependent on them . 
and we use a lot of free lance . 
and that pretty much takes up a lot of our day so for as producing transparencies and things . 
what 's the word i 'm looking for , 
i 'm just totally drawing a blank . 
but the way things have changed over the years with the p c and the different programs is just great . 
it 's remarkable the things we can do now , and compared to . 
just the power , 
i 'm trying to get an updated machine . 
mine is just putting along . 
and it 's not fast enough for a new four eighty six chip , 
but i do n't know if my boss will spring for it . 
but i 'm determined to brake mine so he has to get me another one . 
we think about that a lot . 
that 's what i do . 
we had a printer , a hewlett packard ready writer . 
it was attached to a central p c 
and you had to take your diskette to the p c to print something . 
that 's awful . 
so the first thing when i started working at this bank , is , i said , first of all we need to all be able to share this p c without getting up . 
it 's not a real elaborate local area network , 
but we can share the printer 
and we can send files to each other , 
and we can send mail messages to each other , which is good enough , 
it 's what we need . 
and then i talked them into buying a h p laser jet . 
and that was a major ordeal to get him to buy it . 
but once he bought it , he has been so pleased . 
it 's fast , 
it has good copy . 
the copy that you can . 
i 've got a little , i b m pro printer on my desk , 
and i can use either the pro printer 
or i 've got my p c configured to where i can use either printer . the one that 's on the network or my own . 
i can just print it in my office . 
we 're just trying to talk ours into getting a laser printer . 
the budget restraints and things like that , makes it difficult 
they have gotten really cheap . 
it 's actually a dot matrix printer 
but the quality is almost laser quality . 
and i think it 's called the desk jet 
and i think they 're about five hundred dollars now . 
and we got a quote on some laser printers the other day at six hundred dollars . 
i do n't remember what kind they were , 
but we do a lot of transparencies . 
sometimes the color would take too long to plot out . 
so they just want black and white , which we can just run them through the laser printer real quick . because it will only take a minute to print one of those out and then run a thermal copy of it . 
so that 's all you need for charts and stuff . 
you do n't need them in four colors . 
if it was a customer presentation then that would be different . 
we would want to razzle-dazzle a bit . 
we have one in the office 
and in our area , if we want to use it , like you said , you had to change it , put it on a disc , and carry it over to there , and see if they 're not using the printer , 
you use the system . 
and wait for an opportunity to use it . 
you 'd have to just sit and wait while someone else was using the printer . 
until they got off the machine . 
i know , 
i know , 
i understand . 
i was amazed when i came to work , 
it used to be the largest bank in san antonio until n c n b came up and bought the rival 
and now n c n b 's got a little larger market share , 
it 's part of the bank holding company 
and that bank holding company of the ten largest banking holding companies in texas . it 's the only one that 's still alive . 
any way , i work in a big prestigious place . 
and i could n't believe when i walked in the door on my first day and here 's the audit department of this huge holding company , sharing a h p rugged writer . 
i was going wait a minute . 
come on guys , 
this is crummy . 
so how are you supposed to expect to stay number one when you 're behind the times in technology . 
we 're pushing real hard though . 
we 're trying , 
the entire bank is not like that . 
the bank philosophy is one of innovation and , lead the market . 
it 's just the audit department happened to be just a little behind the times because the senior vice president , over audits , is cheap . 
and it 's real hard to pry money out of him to do these things , 
but i was able to convince him that it would be cost effective and that our board presentations would be much better 
how are we supposed to present the imagine that we 're supposed to present with equipment that 's outdated , that 's obsolete 
and some of the guys that run this place are very tight 
and it 's why do we need this , 
ca n't you do that with what we have , 
unfortunately , the , computer equipment and related peripherals are changing and improving so rapidly , 
do you want to go first ? 
i could barely hear what the switchboard operator was saying as what was the topic . 
fitness and exercise . 
why do n't you go first . 
i like to do weight training and cycling . and just walking swimming . 
i used to do a lot of basketball and running and volleyball until i had some knee surgery last fall . 
and the doctor said that running and jumping is n't real good for my knee anymore , 
so i had to kind of change my life-style a little bit . 
let me ask a personal question , 
how old are you ? 
thirty-eight . 
over thirty-five everything goes downhill . 
the rest of me is in pretty good shape 
it 's just that left knee that just does n't want to do everything it used to . 
you 're lucky then 
because i 've battled arthritis all my life , 
even since i was about two or three . 
then they diagnosed it , 
and usually most people are just absolutely crippled , 
and i do water aerobics . 
religiously do water aerobics , 
i bet that helps . 
i used to do it about six times a week 
and now i 'm down to about four 
but it 's about the only thing that keeps my mobility in there , 
i tried weight training 
and i 'm telling you , i just ca n't lift the things . 
and the shock on the system is just too much , 
so i have stuck to water aerobics basically the weightless thing and , trying to keep this shape that way 
but it 's hard to find . 
i think they feel this is going to be an effortless sweatless way , to get in shape , without having to spend anything 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
or it 's the geriatric crowd . 
that 's right . 
so , i 've considered even becoming licensed to teach it . 
if you know what your routine is , you can do that by yourself , 
and you probably do . 
but you have to have an indoor pool . 
this is true . 
so , to find an indoor pool where either you can do this by yourself without drawing a lot of looks , means you 're really going to do a strenuous workout activity 
you look very odd in the water , 
that was the one place where i was also able to do weight training , 
and that does look very odd in the water . 
i can believe that . 
have you tried the pool at the spring creek fitness center ? 
and that 's the only place i have n't tried 
and people have told me . 
that 's the texins facility ? 
i have been told that thing is just lovely . 
it is . 
they keep it at eighty-one degrees year-round . 
do you use that facility a lot ? 
a fairly good amount 
more on the weekends , 
i try to beat the traffic in the mornings 
when i workout in the mornings , i try to come down to the dallas fitness center . 
do you know if they have child care there ? 
have you done your attitude survey for this year yet ? 
you need to put that on there , seriously . 
i do n't work at t i . 
you do n't ? 
i used to work at t i , 
as matter of fact i was the only woman that they had in the field in a management position 
actually when i was working there i was the only woman that was pretty much in the industry , 
and i used to fill out those attitude surveys , 
and me and the insurance adjusters are very familiar with each other 
and my husband still works there , 
and i get my attitude expressed through them , 
sometimes it 's kind of shoot yourself in the foot mentality to save a few bucks . 
this is true . 
and never having lived in texas before i starting working for t i 
and i came down here 
and they did an attitude survey six weeks after i had been working here 
and i asked about day care for the shift workers , 
and i was pulled in by my manager and told that you just do n't say that , 
it was not applicable to me 
and i was kind of horrified . 
what year are we talking about ? 
we 're talking nineteen seventy-eight . 
things have become much more enlightened since then . 
they could n't have gotten anymore in the dark ages . 
we still do n't have a day care facility 
but people are more sympathetic to it . 
i understand that they 're now covering women 's preventative health care , 
and i tell you how much in the dark ages it was . 
i had been rated number one in the field 
when i became pregnant i also got meningitis , and then delivered the first baby three months early , 
and they put the baby on a heart lung monitor when i took her home , 
and the insurance carrier was not going to cover this because it was considered preventative treatment . 
could you hold the phone for one second , 
i 'm back . 
and then i had a second one eighteen months later , 
and i was flat on my back for the last five months with the second one , because that 's when i go into labor four and a half months 
and i do n't even know it . 
of course it 's real easy to take care of the first one when you 're on your back . 
very easy , 
very easy 
and they put me on twenty-four hour fetal monitoring then to try to control the labor and see how far it was going , 
and after the baby was born , since it was n't premature , then they said they would n't cover the cost of the monitor . 
i think that 's kind of when my husband hit the roof , because it was a thirteen thousand dollar bill , 
but after the second baby was born i was going to go back to work , 
it would have been the eighty-five layoff , 
and i 'll tell you how they handled this 
and i was just outraged , 
i did not know that since i was on personal leave of absence that i had been terminated until i filed my insurance claims about four months later 
and they did n't have any coverage under my name 
and i went back 
and i said what the hell is going on here . 
and they told me your husband works here 
and he 's got a good salary 
we did n't think that you 'd be coming back anyway , 
and we 've got people here that really need to be working 
it was , this way we did n't have to layoff an active person 
and we 'd just let you go . 
and it took me about a year of arguing , 
i said i 've got to put this in writing to me , because until they put it in writing , i could n't get my insurance benefits 
and i could n't get my termination benefits either . 
there you go . 
i was just pissed as hell that they could do that . 
i can believe that . 
but i guess things have gotten better , 
flex time is great . 
i still do n't think after my experiences that they could get me to go back , ever again . 
i can understand . 
i can understand . 
it 's been good talking with you . 
but let me ask you this , since you use texans , 
how much is it a month ? 
it 's only about ten bucks a month . 
that 's for individual . 
to add dependents is maybe another dollar or something 
it 's no big deal . 
that 's it ? 
if you pay your monthly charge , do you then pay separately for classes you 're taking ? 
you do for classes , 
but to use any of the facilities is no extra charge . 
that 's cheap . 
it is . 
that 's really cheap . 
or a dependent of one . 
i am so dependent these days . 
so my position for management to domestic goddess has been an adjustment 
but i think i 'm going to go contact texans . 
i really think i am , 
that beats any offer i 've heard in a long time . 
it 's great . 
when you 're there on weekends is it crowded as hell ? 
it would depend on when you go 
it 's not excessively crowded on the weekends . 
i 'd want to be there in the mornings from nine thirty to ten thirty . 
i do n't think that would be bad at all . 
if you 're in richardson you 'd probably wanted to come to the dallas site . 
i 'm actually right on the plano line . 
then you could go either one , 
the spring creek one is a lot more modern , has a lot more niceties , amenities 
and you 'd probably like the pool there . 
it sounds like i would . 
i might do that then . 
i learned something here . 
i 'm glad . 
you can go back to work now . 
thank you . 
thank you . 
you have a good day . 
in a normal route of way we do things , how about the ladies go first ? 
i have a four year old who will just be entering public school next year , 
so i 'm really just starting to get involved in what 's out there and how they do things . 
as far as the system as a whole , i really do n't see a problem with it . 
i do see a problem with graduating people that ca n't read and are not productive in society or productive to themselves 
and i think that 's the main problem at this point . 
how about yourself ? 
i live in plano , texas 
and today we 're not even suppose to be in school because the way the taxation and all that crap is , there really legally is n't any funding for the school systems in texas today . 
when you take professionals and put them in situations , they have to make decisions based on money to fund public education , 
and they ca n't get their finger out of their ear long enough to get that major subject in line , 
something 's wrong . 
so , i think here in texas mainly that they 're not serious , 
they 're more serious about what the salary should be for senators than they are for how the level of education should be for children . 
i have a one year old 
so i 'm more opinionated about the observations than the true facts , 
but , it 's just a shame to me that our firemen , our policemen , and school teachers are the three least paid utilities that have the biggest impact to our well-being . 
that 's true . 
i have a real issue with that . 
and then you see that their education is below the norm throughout of all fifty states . 
they 're not saying that something 's wrong with the educational system here in texas , 
i have a real concern about that , 
as a matter of fact i 'm very content to spend my daughter out of state to college in virginia verses having her go down here and not learn anything , 
so i think there 's a big concern 
hopefully the new secretary of education will do something to fix the problem 
but i do n't know , 
they 've got to quit worrying about the religious overtones in our textbooks and get on with teaching the product . 
i think they get bogged down in a lot of small issues that special interest groups can blow up and not really get down to teaching what 's important . 
teaching these kids really the basics is what it comes down to . 
i was astonished to find out that across the united states in all public schools it is not mandatory for them to take phys ed . 
is that right ? 
, the kids nowadays do n't even know what the president 's fitness education program is all about , 
they do n't have to do sit-ups and push-ups and all that crap we had to do when we were going to school . 
i remember . 
and 
and i talked to a thirteen year old last night who goes to one of the plano high schools or junior highs , 
and she said that she had a choice , 
she could either have taken tennis , or weight lifting 
so she choice to take weight lifting , over the regular gym , 
give me a break , 
the kids sit there 
and they drink cokes and eat popcorn for lunch 
and , then go out there and lift weights and do n't learn anything , 
and talk , 
i have a real problem with the whole system . 
they need to put some sternness back into the teachers and let them be able to get the old whip out and get some discipline . 
then it comes down to what you said before though about them being some of the lowest paid public service , employees that there are , 
i used to date a girl who taught english at ninth grade level . 
and yet they 're so important . 
i was absolutely flabbergasted at what she was paid . 
she was young , 
but still it 's the principle . 
of course , if she got her master 's degree it would all be different . 
it 's hard though because then you start talking taxes 
and , that 's a bad word . 
taxes lord forbid , taxes . 
if we would plan our expressways a little better , that ten dollars for the bridges and the roads , we 'd cut that in half and get some teachers 
we might have us a problem . 
there 's an idea . 
maybe i should run for office ? . 
run on that then , no income taxes in texas ? 
that 's true . 
i 'm in texas too , 
that 's funny , 
that 's funny . 
that 's about all i have here . 
me , too , 
i think we both agree there 's some problems there 
but , we 'll , maybe do our small part to fix them up . 
ma'am . 
i 've enjoyed it . 
you too . 
where do you get most of your news ? 
i watch the macneil lehrer news hour , 
and i subscribe to the paper on the weekends . 
where are you ? 
i 'm in dallas . 
are you in dallas also ? 
i 'm in san antonio . 
i get my news from a combination of sources . 
i take the paper every day 
and i read it on the way in to work in a carpool . 
and actually i watch the morning news before i leave for work . 
and then usually over lunch , there 'll be a big topic of conversation on something from the news . 
i normally find that i 'm probably the most news hungry of my friends , 
so we do n't normally talk about the news at lunch . 
i find that i have to only subscribe to the paper on the weekend , simply because i used to get it during the week 
but i would always end up arriving at work late , because i would always end up skimming the headlines , spending too much time , reading it in the morning . 
so i have to cut myself down to the weekend , plus after work . 
the macneil lehrer news hour is on public television 
and i enjoy that quite a bit . 
one of the women that i work with , her husband is iranian . 
so here lately with all the middle eastern news we 've had some very interesting conversations over lunch . 
i will admit i work with someone who 's iranian , 
and he definitely has a very different slant on the news . 
he 's very , very skeptical of the news media , 
and i will admit i 'm reasonably skeptical also . 
but he 's much more so . 
it 's sort of interesting though , because he does bring a much different perspective with all the gulf goings on . 
he was always speaking in terms of american imperialism reasserting itself . 
i suppose it 's a different attitude that we normally do n't hear in the country . 
i like the print news much better than the television news because television news tends to sensationalize . 
true 
they tend to spend quite a bit of time on one story . 
they will have maybe two or three main stories and just spend a very large amount of time . 
sort of like a b c 's nightline . 
i guess they only normally stick with just the one story . 
but they can do a much better job since they do n't have to chop it into little two minute stories . 
they do n't report on every murder and shooting that happened in every little town . 
it 's very much national interest news . 
a lot of times they end up with these panels of experts 
and they go back and forth , where everyone 's giving some opinions 
i do n't know the value of that , because i saw plenty of jokes and , editorial cartoons about all the retired generals , making a living during the gulf war . 
i 've been getting a kick out of those lately . 
i 'm only twenty-five , 
so i 've never actually been through a period of war 
and i do n't know anyone in the military 
and i do n't have a lot of background knowledge in military strategy and weaponry , and all that kind of stuff . 
and i thought the generals were very interesting . 
when they started to speculate , i saw that for what is was , and thought all of these guys do n't know what 's going on . 
but i thought they were interesting , 
and they shed some light on what was going on for me . 
i will admit it 's interesting . 
i 'm twenty-six . 
so i do n't have any more experience in that than you . 
it was very interesting that it seemed like some of the commentators had their axe to grind , 
there were some that were screaming for air power , 
there were some that were saying the air power was n't going to do it . 
and they seemed to mold the events to their view of the world , which i suppose just about everyone does , 
but these guys had a , national soap box to stand on and express this view . 
one of the best television news shows that i saw during the war was a show on a saturday morning on a b c , 
and it was for children 
and it was hosted by peter jennings , 
and it was so interesting because they were relating the war to these children in their studio , 
and they also had children calling in live from all over the country and asking questions . 
and they had all their correspondents in the different areas , in saudi arabia , and israel , and all . 
they had them all , on line . 
they had them all on hold 
and if a child asked a question that the person in jerusalem could best answer , they would cut to that person , 
and that person would answer the question . 
it was just very informative and interesting , 
and i was real impressed at how a b c handled translating , the war for children . 
this is getting a little off the topic , 
but there was a big push with the local t v stations to have little hot lines with counselors to help parents learn how to talk about their war with their children . 
i thought that was a really unusual thing . 
i do n't know if it 's h e b statewide or whatever , 
i do n't know if they still have them , 
but they were free rental , videos , that had something to do with the war . 
with the children 's aspect ? 
it was something for children , that they had several advertisements on television pushing parents . 
i suppose that is a valuable service . 
again not having lived through another war , i do n't know if that 's a common thing that people thought of , or if that was a new concern with people . 
that type of technology just was n't at people 's disposal . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
so i do n't think there 's ever been a war that 's been so thoroughly covered by the news . 
and probably more importantly , one that lasted short enough that people 's interest did n't flag too badly . 
i tell you what , 
the first three days , i was glued to the television . 
i will admit the same thing . 
and i , would come home and flip on macneil lehrer 
and they would run these extended two , three hour versions of the program 
and i was horrified and fascinated by what i was seeing . 
i tell you what . 
let 's see , 
was it a wednesday or thursday ? 
must have been thursday , 
and friday night i stayed up until two o'clock in the morning , sitting , right dead center in front of my television just watching practically with my mouth hanging open . 
because i was watching c n n , 
and they would switch back to one of their israel bureaus , 
and the people would be standing there in gas masks , 
and you 'd be hearing the sirens , 
i was amazed . 
i did n't have that experience . 
i do n't have cable 
so i 'm pretty much limited to p b s , which i thought they did a very good job . 
i 've got one question for you . 
you say you take the newspaper . 
i found the newspaper situation in dallas very interesting . 
we 've got the one relatively weaker paper , the times herald , and then the morning news , which has a very strong subscription . 
you said san antonio ? 
do you have just one paper , 
or do you have several ? 
there are two , 
and they 're pretty close . 
i grew up near houston 
and there are two major newspapers there that run pretty much neck and neck , 
and the one i picked here had the same format as the one that my parents took as i was growing up the same type of typeface on the headline and that kind of stuff . 
it 's piddly stuff to pick a newspaper over , 
the comics are better in this newspaper . 
this newspaper has the far side and the comics that i enjoy 
and the other one has some weird ones that i 've never heard of . 
i actually take both newspapers on the weekends . 
do you ? 
i figure i 'm only taking on the weekend , 
and i can afford that . 
i find the news reporting in the morning news to be better , 
but i sort of have a liberal political slant , 
and the morning news just has an incredibly conservative editorial outlook . 
and my fiancee takes probably six sunday papers . 
i get the times herald just to balance that out a little bit . 
he takes both san antonio papers , an austin paper , both houston papers , 
i guess he takes seven , 
the san marcos paper and the new braunsfel paper , 
but he 's a football coach at southwest texas state university , 
so he 's getting all the sports sections . 
and he has these stacks of sunday newspapers that go unread ... 
i guess this is probably really a good subject for me because i really like to do hand work . 
mostly i do needlepoint , i guess . 
what kinds of things have you done ? 
i 've made a lot of baby gifts . 
bibs and blankets , and things like that . wall hangings 
do you ever keep any of your stuff ? 
is n't that funny . 
i do crochet and a lot of things like that , 
and i have very little of my own stuff , 
and it 's kind of embarrassing . 
people say let me see some of your work . 
can you do it ? 
is n't that funny . 
i guess i do have one thing . 
a friend of mine gave me a clock kit 
and , i needlepointed the face , 
and i kept that because she gave me that . 
that would be definitely something you 'd want to keep . 
and it 's real neat . 
was the whole face done or just the numbers , and minute marks ? 
i guess the minute marks , 
they 're like hearts . 
at the numbers they 're kind of outlined and stuff . 
it was quite bit of work , 
but it was a lot of fun , too . 
i really like doing stuff like that . 
i did some needlepoint years ago , 
and then i got into the bargello . 
what 's that ? 
i started to say the canvas , 
what kind of cloth uses that . 
i 've just gone blank . 
but it 's used with yarn , 
and it usually takes long stitches over two or three openings in the cloth 
and you weave intricate patterns and use different colors . 
it could be a flame stitch where rather than drawing a picture you 're making a design like a geometric or whatever , 
and it was used quite often in the colonial times to upholster chairs , and so forth , as well as the crewel embroidery work that was done on them . 
that 's interesting . 
what kind of things did you do ? 
what i did , when i was doing that was mostly pillows for sofas and so forth , 
and i ca n't find one that i 've done . 
it 's one of those things 
i did n't give them away , 
but i did n't know if it 's been my color choice or multiple moves or what , 
i was so proud of them when i got them finished , 
but i have no idea where they are . 
what did you call that ? 
bargello . 
it 's b , a , r , g , e , double l , o 
i 've never heard of that before . 
i 've probably seen it , though , 
i suspect you have . 
when you described it , it sounded like something that would be around , i guess . 
but , i 've never heard of it before , 
and it 's really interesting . 
i guess i 've decorated baskets and stuff before in the past , 
but i 've kind of gotten out of that . 
i use to do a lot more and sell at craft shows . 
me , too . 
that 's interesting . 
it is . 
how did you know to choose this subject , tonight . 
that 's funny . 
how were you decorating the baskets ? 
basically bows and lace ribbons . 
so many of them now have the ribbons where , i 'm not sure how they do it , 
i do n't know how to explain it . 
they make them hard ? 
like fabric that 's been stiffened . 
i 've never done that , 
and those are so neat . 
i would really like to do those 
i 've seen some , 
i suspect they 're fairly simple , because the one lady i 've seen , i know that does it , i 've never asked her any questions , 
but she has three kids all under the age of six . 
and they 're all a handful . 
so it 's got to be something she can do fairly easily and fairly quickly . 
when i do crochet , it 's usually the lacy victorian type things like that , 
and i stiffen those with a glue mixture . 
it 's like white glue , 
and it may be something similar to that that the fabric is dipped in and then allowed to dry in those draping streamers . 
i do n't know . 
there 's bound to be some kind of fabric stiffener like that that 's very similar that 's not going to melt too much with high humidity , in a room , 
i think that 's what my concern was , was it really sure , and how they would last . 
do you know what my concern is ? 
how will i dust this thing ? 
you 're right . 
that 's terrible . 
that 's true . 
that 's funny . 
right now i 'm looking at a little quilted hanging , 
it 's a flag , 
and i do n't want to wash it , because that would start breaking down the batting and so forth , 
but it 's such a dust collector to be out , and so forth . 
and most of my things are dust collectors . 
and i hate to dust . 
i know . 
so first thing i think of is how easy would this , thing be to clean . 
that 's funny . 
i have really gotten out of it . 
i do n't do it quite as much as i used to . because i went back to school , 
so i do n't have as much time . 
you do n't have time . 
and i have two children also . 
you definitely do n't have time . 
it keeps me very busy . 
but i really enjoy it when i do do it , when i get the chance . 
it 's so relaxing to just sit , 
but once i get started , i ca n't put it down . 
i have a similar problem . 
i 've got to have time 
or i do n't even want to get into it in the first place . 
and so i end up lots of time not doing anything at all . 
i know , 
i started a project that i swore i was going to finish for somebody for christmas . 
you just did n't say which christmas . 
that 's what i keep telling this person , 
i did n't tell you what year . 
what was this project ? 
it 's cross stitch , 
and it 's a picture , 
and it 's a wildlife , 
it has deer and trees 
and , it 's really beautiful , 
but it 's going to be a lot of work , 
and i have worked on it quite a bit , but not as much as i 'd like to . 
it 's just so hard . 
this is done in the needlepoint ? 
it 's counted cross stitch , actually , is what i 'm doing , 
and so since it 's counted it 's really a lot of work . 
i do know . 
i have done a little bit of that , 
but i decided that that 's something that demands my total attention . 
and so i 've got to have almost total silence . 
i ca n't really watch television if the pattern is very intricate . 
it sounds like you 'd have lots of shading on that particular piece . 
it does not sound like an easy one to finish . 
it really is n't , 
and i tell you , 
i could just kick myself for even starting it , because i have a feeling i 'm never going to get it done . 
i 'm probably going to hear about it the rest of my life . 
i 'm sure you 'll get it done , 
but it just may not , 
obviously not of the original time schedule . 
that 's true . 
it just seems like there 's just never enough time to pick it up and do it , , 
it 's just really hard . 
like i said i really enjoy it when i do . 
it 's just hard . 
just hard finding the time that can be dedicated . 
and there 's so many other things that , i have done in the meantime , like i said , so many baby gifts . 
i 've made a lot of bibs , and wall hangings , 
and so those do n't take much time at all . 
so it 's no big deal for me to pick those up and do them . 
do you use a book of patterns , 
or do you go out an buy a kit for a bib or something like that . 
i usually just buy a pattern book . 
i have several pattern books , 
and i just go with those . 
and then i buy the bibs separate . 
usually i think it 's a little bit cheaper in the long run , 
and then i just use whatever colors i want to . 
i do n't usually use the colors they tell me to . 
and it depends on what it is . 
but some things , especially letters , if they suggest certain colors for letters , i just go with whatever i want to . 
that 's what i would do , too . 
or whatever i have . 
there 's a few designs i guess i 've done myself , but not very many . 
real simple ones i do . 
i made a little thumb print and made it a bunny . 
it was really easy . 
just did a thumb print . 
what . with ink ? 
and then i did n't cross stitch the actual thumb print , , 
that was just the ink , 
and then i made the ears and little eyes and nose and mouth . 
that was so simple . 
that sounds really neat . 
it did n't take anything at all . 
did you use , a stamp pad and ink . 
just like being finger printed ... 
let 's see . 
how do you feel about credit cards ? 
personally , i do not care for them . although i find them a necessity in business and so forth , 
i try to refrain from their use as much as possible . for a number of reasons , one of which is the extreme interest rate on most of them . 
the one i use of course , mostly , only for business purposes is american express . 
and i 'm not terribly in favor of them . 
not for my own personal point of view . 
plus from an economic point of view it has increased our debt tremendously to the tune of somewhere on the order of five to ten billion , i believe 
at least that 's one number for this range of numbers i have heard . 
do you use them frequently 
me and my wife , when we have extra money that we know we 're going to have , and we can put it in our budget we 'll use it . 
i think it was twenty something cents interest , on our visa . 
and this year i think we used it for christmas , 
and we got caught just a few days on our grace period . 
so we 'll pay a little interest this year , but maybe two dollars . 
but we do n't like to do that at all . 
and i think we feel about the same way you do real strongly . 
we have several credit cards , though . 
we have a gas card , our visa , and then , of course , the american express , 
and i think we have a couple of department stores . 
but , we use it the same way , 
aside from the american express , i do use my sears card . 
but as with the american express , i try to pay it as it comes in . 
it 's not uncommon for us to have paid it before we even get the bill . 
that 's usually how we do it . 
i know when i used to travel overseas quite a bit , what i would do on my american express card is before i left i would mail a check to american express and have some idea of how much was there , 
i 'd sent them several hundred dollars , or whatever i felt i would spend . and then use it then . 
but for hotels and so forth . 
but i knew that it was paid . 
i knew that i had that much credit , going in . 
sometimes i would go over , 
but it would n't hit me in a big way because i knew that i would have it covered in that respect . 
that 's good . 
i do n't think we 've gone that far to pay it in advance before we spend it , 
but , i guess if you foresaw that you were going to have to use it , like that , that may be good . 
i found in traveling overseas that often it would expedite things to have an american express credit card for hotel bills and so forth . 
plus when they would send the bill , they would automatically convert to the exchange rate . 
so the only time that got to be a problem was , if the exchange rate changed drastically . 
for example , i remember on one trip to france when i started planning the trip a dollar was worth nine or ten francs and just in a matter of a week or two the dollar fell against the franc , drastically . 
and when i finally got over there , it had fallen two or three francs to the dollar . 
so , i got caught a little short in that regard , 
maybe it would be more than that . 
it would average out to thirty-five or forty dollars a night which is a reasonable rate . 
of course the government was several months behind on its per diem for exchange rate . 
so there 's a little consternation in trying to get them to compensate , for the difference in the exchange rate . 
especially , 
that was the only time i really got caught short . 
but as i said , most of all i try not to use them lavishly , in that regard . 
that 's good . 
from where are you calling ? 
from the dallas area . 
i 'm from maryland . 
do you work for t i ? 
i work for g t e . 
. i wonder how t i got g t e involved . 
i know jack godfrey . 
i know him very well . 
i 've known jack for a long time , 
and i 'm also in the speech business . 
so , when i heard that jack was going to do this , i called him and asked for an application where i could participate in this . 
and , so that 's how i got involved . 
what 's the word . 
your speech is very exact . 
. thank you very much . 
but , as jack said , i 'm one of the old hands in the speech business . 
i 've been doing it for twenty some odd years . 
and so i was very much interested in getting involved in switchboard . 
so you work for t i ? 
i work in . 
i guess we 're supposed to do this part of it before we started the recording . 
i think we talked for a good eight minutes about the subject , 
so , i think you get ten , 
so i think we 're okay . 
you have a good evening . 
you too . 
it 's been pleasant talking to you . 
same here . 
take care . 
how are you today ? 
i 'm great . 
as a matter of fact before we started this conversation i was working on my p c at home . 
do you have one ? 
i do n't have one at home . 
i work with one at work continually , 
but i do not have one of my own at home . 
what do you have , at home ? 
actually it 's a t i computer , 
but it is the i b m clone . 
it 's not the t i p c from back when . 
from the oldies but the goodies . 
it 's probably pretty close to what i have , because i have the same kind of thing at work . 
i have a three eighty-six s x which is t i computer , 
but everything is in i b m mode . 
that 's what we have . . 
do you use it a lot at home ? 
i really do . 
i am an accountant 
but i work at home . 
so you 're on it a lot . 
so i use it for that quite often . 
we have used some of it for some personal things . 
we keep track of personal budgets and things like that on it . 
since it 's tax season , i 'm doing a lot of taxes , 
so i do a lot of that work on it as well . 
i was amazed when i took our taxes to our tax person 
and she works out of her home also . 
and the software that does the taxes is just incredible . 
it is . 
i expected to go and drop the stuff off and go back two weeks later . 
and she had it done and out in twenty minutes on her little p c . 
you can . 
it was great . 
you can , 
that 's right . 
that 's wonderful . 
i have often thought that having one at home would be neat . 
i just do n't know if we would really use it that much . 
we did n't decide to get one until i started working at home . 
then , we thought , we can use it for some personal things . 
for us it really took a business application to justify the expense of it . 
i know my stepfather bought my mother a little personal computer probably three years ago for christmas , 
and it 's got some stuff on it . 
it 's got a nice little word processing software on it and some budgeting type things and stuff . 
and i do n't think she 's ever touched it . 
it just seems like a lot of trouble for something at home . 
she always seems to have better things to do than to try to sit down and figure out how to use her computer . 
she could just as easily do those things by hand . 
just as quickly . 
i know my boss has bought the software that his checkbook is on a disk , 
and he goes in and types his checks on the screen and then hits print , 
and they print out on the checks , 
and he 's ordered envelopes with the windows in the right places , 
i saw him yesterday morning over there , 
and he paid his monthly bills , 
and he just wrote all the checks on the screen and hit print 
and it printed out like ten checks , 
they 're perforated , 
and he just ripped them off . 
they go through just a continuous thing on the printer 
and he ripped them off and stuck them in the envelopes 
and there they went . 
and he said i can balance my checkbook in seconds because it 's all in the computer . 
and there 's not going to be those adding mistakes that we all make . 
that 's exactly why . 
he said , used to be i always sat looking for those . 
he said this way there is n't any . 
it does it for you . 
there are definitely , some advantages to it . 
it 's just a matter of , like you say , does it justify the cost , if you 're using it strictly for personal business . 
i think in most cases i 'd have to say no . 
not unless somebody really enjoys it . or perhaps is using it for education . 
i have a four year old son , 
and we have some education programs that he likes . 
a little sesame street one 
and we have another one that plays music , 
and he really likes that one . 
as he grows up he 'll be even more and more too . 
that 's right . 
that 'll be great . 
and 
my sister went to college , started about three years ago , 
and she had to have a computer . 
it was a necessity . 
she could n't imagine going through college without a computer . 
i 'm going through right now . 
i 'm going part time in the evenings , 
everything has to be typed . 
they require it . 
you have to type it , 
and so i 'm up here nights and weekends working on the p c up here typing stuff . 
so i can see where it would be a great advantage to have one at home if you were going to school . 
any more i do n't even know if a college kid would have a typewriter . 
i do n't know . 
probably not even , 
and they probably used to have it . 
i just finished a major research paper a couple of weeks ago , 
and i could n't imagine not having that thing on a disk where i could go back in and move stuff around and change it . 
unfortunately in our family , my husband and i went through college together 
and then he went on and got his master 's degree while i was working . 
and i 'm the better typist , of us , 
and we just had a regular old typewriter , not even a correcting one back then . 
and you had to type all of his papers . 
it was n't that long ago , 
but i typed his master 's papers and things on a typewriter . 
to have a computer back then . 
cut your time in half at least . 
at least . 
at least . 
and then of course you have some changes to make , and do the whole thing over . 
you take out a sentence , 
on a computer you take it out print it out , 
take out a sentence on a piece of paper , 
you do the whole thing over . 
that 's right . 
i remember when i was working in high school , 
i was working in an office , right after i got out of high school 
i continued working there for probably another year . 
and we did everything on a typewriter everything . 
but it 's amazing , 
then , when , someone would have you type a letter , they did it right . 
the first time . 
they sit there 
and they go , is this really what i want to say , 
and you typed it 
and that was it , 
and now people just send it back over and over and over and over . 
that 's probably one of the problems and frustrations that it 's brought about , because people do feel like , we can just change it . 
we 'll try this out and see what it looks like . 
but it gets a little out of hand sometimes . 
i 've seen it get out of hand up here where we 've got a secretary that sits over here that 's keeping metrics right now , and keeping up of all the letters i type , how many of them do i make changes on . and on each letter , what types of changes . 
are they typos ? 
are they because i could n't read it 
or people just change one word because they think it sounds better , or whatever . 
and she 's also keeping what percentage of letters am i retyping for whatever reason . 
and there 's one week , she did retypes on ninety percent of what she typed , 
i believe it . 
and it 's ridiculous 
and that was the high week , 
but it 's running about seventy which is still ridiculous to have to make changes to seventy percent of everything that she types . 
it 's good that she does that bring it to people 's attention . 
that 's exactly right . 
she keeps several weeks ' worth of data and then in addition is keeping copies of all the changes to show look , this did n't really need to be changed . 
this is ridiculous 
and changing , add this time to now . 
that 's the kind of things that she 's keeping and showing , that , this was a big waste of time , it was a waste of paper , it was a waste to change something like that . 
. anyway , maybe it 'll help in some way , 
but i do n't know . 
there definitely even with the few disadvantages like that are far better than the alternative . 
without a doubt . 
without a doubt . 
i would like to get one at home some day . 
we 've got a two year old son , 
and so some day i would like to get , even just the video or something like that , 
just to be able to pull in sources from outside would be wonderful . 
especially when they 're in school , i think they would get a lot out of it . 
i do too , 
i do too . 
the on line encyclopedia just sounds wonderful , 
that sounds like such a great idea , 
it 'd be kind of fun to be able to play with it . 
. i know , my father had a p c , 
and when we were in high school it was always fun . 
we could link in , 
and i do n't even remember now what it was called . 
but you could link in and talk to people all over the country . 
and you have your own little code name , 
and you 'd type in how are you , 
and they 'd type back and everybody , 
and you 'd have five or six or seven people talking to each other at the same time , 
and everything everybody said prints out on your screen as they 're typing it , 
and it was just great fun , 
it was very expensive , because the whole time you were on there you were on long distance . 
it was like a long distance phone call . 
so , we were each limited to twenty minutes a day , 
that still could add up . 
it added up big . 
my parents were divorced 
and so the time we were visiting our father in the summer time , 
so he felt like he could splurge and let us do it . 
i 'm sure we would not have been allowed to do that under normal situations . 
but when you 're doing the guilty father complex , because he 's not there to watch us grow , you can kind of get all kinds of stuff . 
that 's sad . 
it was nice to talk to you . 
you too . 
have a nice day . 
you too . 
movies . 
i have n't seen too many lately . 
i have kids 
and we went and saw the rescuers down under , over the break . 
do you have kids you take to movies 
no kids . 
it 's a walt disney movie 
and it did n't get as good a reviews as the little mermaid , their last one , 
and got all kinds of academy awards and things last year . 
but this one was excellent . 
the mumblex , 
was that the animated version ? 
it 's animated . 
and i ca n't believe how good they 're getting with their animation now . 
it 's just the special effects . 
and in this movie , there 's this boy 
and he rescues this bald eagle 
and it 's a huge eagle wing span of twenty feet or something like that . 
and the boy actually rides on his back 
and he rides through the clouds , 
and you see him coming out of the clouds , his head coming out and then the bird coming out , 
and they 're flying all over with it . 
and i know there must have been computers or something for animation this day , 
but it was just so real , realistic and lifelike and good animation . 
it was a good show . 
even better than roger rabbit insofar as animation ? 
roger was a composite one . 
there 's a movie i 've seen , roger rabbit . 
that 's not a recent movie , 
but i enjoyed that show . 
that was made several years back . 
latest one i 've saw which was a mistake to go see was lionheart , 
had claude van damme . 
of course i guess he 's trained in this martial arts of some sort , 
but the plot was bland , 
the acting was bland . 
chop them up ? 
chop them up , 
this is supposed to be the guy that replaces bruce lee or whatever or the next chuck norris type of guy . 
or he 's singular . 
you know how they can make any single one of them in a movie to be a superstar of any sort , 
superstar . 
but chuck norris , of course , could be just about equal , if not more 
and all of them could be in that fashion , or category . 
it was about a , french foreign legion fellow who deserts to go help his brother 's wife who became a widow because he was selling drugs , 
and he got killed . 
really uplifting ? 
so he deserts and goes to new york 
and he starts out by fighting to make money , 
and then he moves on to l a to where she is to just help him out . 
the hollywood really must think there 's some real dummies out there or something . 
i do n't know . 
i had n't heard much about that movie . 
other than it was a chop them up movie . 
but i guess that 's one i wo n't go see . 
it was worth the buck i guess . 
you went to the dollar movie ? 
they show up at the dollar movie right after they come out . 
they 're usually not that great or did n't do that great anyway . 
let me see . 
let me see 
another movie i watched . 
i want to see that new one that won all those academy awards this year , dances with wolves . 
i have n't seen that . 
have you seen that one yet ? 
i absorbed all of that movie in one sitting . 
i guess what made it so good was the cinematography , 
the wide open , the spaces , 
and the music 
and it had an excellent story line . 
everything about it was good . 
i thought an excellent one , too , was misery with kathy bates and james caan . 
i 'm not a james caan fan , 
but that was a well directed and acted movie . 
is that right ? 
i 'd recommend it . 
it 's a little on the violent side 
but then what movie is n't anymore . 
our movies today , it used to be x 
and p g -s used to be r -s 
and , seems like the rating system is kind of switching that way a little bit . 
i have no objections to it . 
and it 's a matter of your taste , 
instead of having x now , they have n c seventeen ? 
they just changed it because x had a connotation with it , 
and even on those type they do n't show what you expect . 
a lot of those are really violent type movies . 
really gory . 
that seems to be the norm of most movies , 
this is america . 
let me see . 
one movie i saw red october . 
have you seen that one ? 
i have . 
that was pretty good . 
i read the book before 
so i knew the story line going in , 
but they changed some things in the movie . 
it was n't the same . 
i thought the book was better than the movie , 
but i thought the movie was really good as well . 
i always wait for the movie . 
i do n't have time to read the book . 
i do n't , 
i read about one or two thick novels like that a year , 
that 's about all the time i can spare . 
but that was a good show i thought . 
i read an article on how they did all the special effects with the submarine . 
that was n't a real submarine you saw in the water . 
it was all done in studio with smoke and mirrors and all the hollywood magic . 
all those underwater scenes . 
it looked to me like it was a real submarine , that was in the water . 
that 's the magic of hollywood , special effects . 
i hear this movie f x part two coming out is pretty good . 
is that right ? 
did you ever see the original one ? 
i did n't . 
you ought to rent the f x part one . 
it does n't say part one , 
but it 's f slash x . 
. what 's that about ? 
i 'm not sure . 
i ca n't remember . 
it 's been a while since i 've seen it . 
but he gets involved in some sort of bad dealings with somebody 
and he has to go underground , 
and he uses all of his special effects knowledge in doing what needs to be done . 
to fool people 
and using makeup and using all the props and whatever to get to where he needs to go . 
all the tricks . 
that sounds like an interesting concept . 
but you need to rent the first one first . 
to understand what 's going on in the second ? 
if that is that the second one follows the first . 
i do n't know if they have the original actors on that first one to that one . 
they 're supposed to be coming out with all these desert storm movies , this summer , too . 
i expected those . 
they were doing their dealings with that before they even got over there , i think . 
in some of those they retitled some movies that were going to be about lebanese and americans 
and they decide , make it iraqis and americans , 
and they just change the title and reshot a few parts where they could . 
actual names , will not be used . 
eventually they will come out with the proper names . 
it , 
i guess they 'll probably come out with a lot of movies . 
it was such a rout though . 
i do n't know , 
they probably do the story of someone who was shot down early in the war or something and how he survived or about those two newsmen or whatever that got captured . 
latest story , 
kevin costner is supposed to play schwartzkopf , supposedly . 
is that right ? 
i do n't know . 
that 's just one of the many rumors that floats around . 
or what you read . 
pretty much used up the tape . 
it 's been about five minutes . 
it 's been nice talking with you . 
same . 
and we 'll talk to you on the next go around . 
keep on watching those movies ? 
first of all , i want to tell you i have two little kids , 
but they 're not in public school yet . 
i get that experience starting next fall with kindergarten . 
so you have n't really dealt with that in a sense . 
but being one of these late in life mothers , i 've listened to everybody else 's complaints as to what 's the matter with either their kids or the school system . 
so i 've been surprised . 
do you have school age kids ? 
mine are both out of school . 
and i 've , in hindsight , seen some things that i wished that i had done something about that was within my power or wish that in some ways we , as parents , had more control over what 's happening up there type thing . 
such as ? 
just over the years there were situations that came up that i did n't think were fair or handled correctly 
or the teachers did n't seem to be teaching anything . 
of course , it 's a little hard to tell from the information that you get from your child . 
they bring things home 
and i was never one to believe everything my kids said about something . 
but still i questioned the ability of some of the teachers to really do a bang-up job , 
and yet others i know are just wonderful . 
i heard a frightening thing . 
actually , i did n't hear it . 
it was told to me or suggested to me that to work as a teacher in the public school systems in the state of texas , if you have a degree in a technical field you do not need a teaching certificate because there is such a shortage of people to teach math and sciences . 
and somebody said , you could go in and substitute teach at seventy-five dollars a day 
and there 's always going to be somebody having a need for a math or science teacher . 
this would be frightening . 
i do n't know anything about it . 
that 's pretty interesting because , just because you know a subject matter does n't mean you can teach it . 
and even if i knew how to teach the subject matter , i do n't know if i 'd know how to handle that kind of a group of kids . 
in fact , i think that 's one of the big problems today is the way the kids behave or act and the way they are sometimes disinterested in what 's going on in the class and disruptive . 
i tell you what i 'm finding frightening 
and this comes from the aging hippie near forty mother . 
so i went through this period of supposedly cosmic social enlightenment . 
i 'm in the plano school system and living in richardson , 
and there is a real dichotomy in terms of educational and economic background of the kids that are going to be attending this school . 
and i used to think , that 's wonderful . 
they can get a real life experience . 
and i wonder , how do they handle a child who is obviously very ready and another child who does n't even speak english , let alone know her colors . 
and they 're in the same classrooms . 
and i guess also you 're going to see the first of the crack kids starting kindergarten . 
i think it would be next year is what i 'd read . 
i thought , how do you weed those out ? 
some of those certainly have a lot of difficulties , with all sorts of things , 
and i would imagine their learning disabilities are quite large in some cases . 
when i was listening to n p r , the national public radio , 
and they 've quoted statistics that my throat just about fell into my toes . 
they said at the bottom of the s a t scores of graduating college seniors are usually those people that go into education . 
that 's encouraging . 
and i got to thinking back when i was teaching college chemistry , 
the people that took the lower level courses , i sometimes wondered are they really even educatable or trainable 
i do n't know . 
that 's an idea . 
maybe there need to be some radical changes made . 
do some things that are totally different and unheard of . 
you sit here 
and you think about that . 
at the same time you think , i hope i do n't sound like a stage mother because , right now if you ask my friends put twenty mothers in a room and ask them how many have gifted children , you 're going to have twenty hands up there . 
you 're kidding . 
nobody has a nongifted child . 
and i keep thinking gifted is einstein or musical prodigies . 
it 's not a kid who 's precocious . 
what has the educational system been watered down to that anybody who 's above average is now gifted ? 
i do n't know . 
that 's interesting . 
i do n't know . 
mine did not fall into the gifted category . 
do n't say that . 
and i would never had said so either . 
but they managed to get through , although not always with flying colors . 
in fact , one of the incidents i was thinking of that my son had . he was struggling with senior english 
and i had a meeting with the vice principal and the english instructor , 
and she showed me a paper that he had just handed in . 
and she told me what she had requested . 
and i read it 
and while it had a few little grammatical problems , it was n't very long and so forth . i thought it had some nice , well thought out parts to it . 
she gave him an f on that paper . 
and i thought , here you have a student who is trying to pass , who is struggling with your subject 
and you give them an f on something that does n't seem that bad to me . 
what are you telling that student ? 
you 're telling them that , you might as well forget it . 
i think that harks right back to the elementary and junior high years . 
because i have a stepson now who 's twenty-five 
and i was just absolutely shocked the first time that i saw his schoolwork . 
i remember being taught , 
and you have to teach how to write an answer and how to construct a thought process . 
and they can grasp the points . 
can they convey the data verbally or in writing . 
and that 's what 's really scary to me . 
there 's such a push among young mothers these days to make sure their child is computer literate . 
i would really think that they should be stressing more can the kid write a thought and at an early age . 
and if they ca n't if they have missed that training , then somebody before you start penalizing them with bad grades for not being able to communicate what they 're thinking , teach them these basic skills . 
it 's pretty sad to think about those who , even today , are graduating from school 
and they are telling that they do n't know how to read . 
my stepson he went into the navy or air force . 
i just really get my military , 
i married into a military family , 
and i do n't know , 
i address them all as generals 
so i do n't offend anybody . 
but fortunately for him , he was n't dumb 
but he sure had trouble putting things on paper . 
and one of the things that they did for him . they tested him 
and they said that he 's great in electronics 
but he really does need the basic skills . 
and they put him through six months of composition writing in addition to all his electronic training . 
and at that point , he has now graduated from warfare electronics school with honors . 
this is the kid who really barely made it through high school . 
that 's interesting that the military saw that and did something about it . 
you would have expected them to be the last ones to . 
and i kind of have always pooh-poohed military educations . 
but i think that for this kid , it 's going to be his lifesaver . 
otherwise , he might have been driving trucks or framing houses from here to eternity . 
so , i do n't know . 
it does make me nervous . 
i can see why if you 've got little ones just coming along . 
there 's a whole lot of stuff going on out there . 
there is a whole lot of stuff going on out there 
and part of me says i just would like to shut my eyes and pretend it does n't go on . or send them to private schools . 
and then the old social conscience says i 'm not working , 
i do n't need to work . 
maybe i should volunteer to teach what i know . 
maybe adult literacy . maybe composition writing . maybe volunteering on a tutor line or even through the elementary schools for help with homework 
or , the other part of me says i 've had enough kids . 
what do you think about it ? 
i guess i 'm more concerned about public safety than i am about the concern for the idea of , preserving privacy for , the individual , , 
privacy . 
because i ca n't really see why anyone who has nothing to hide would object . 
of course , that is certainly true , 
and that bothers me . 
i 'm very much for drug testing , 
i really am . 
i 'm going to take the negative side just for a second , just to do it . 
i have to take medication for kidney transplant . 
and i 'm going to be taking that the rest of my life . 
if you had to have a drug test ? 
i have n't had one yet . 
i work for texas instruments 
and , we do have the random drug testing 
but i 've missed it so far . 
but in the back of my mind , it always bothers me . 
and what happens if they catch it , 
they think that i 'm on drugs 
and they send me and have me go through this , thing , 
checked out or whatever . 
but it seems to me that there are ways to accommodate that . , 
i agree that some innocent person might be victimized , by a false test , 
but i would think that some guidelines could be set up to avoid that . 
for example , that one positive would not be accepted as an automatic reason for whatever they might be going , to do if they found a positive dismissal or treatment or whatever , but that what it would do is it would trigger , perhaps one or two more stages where further tests could be done . 
because there must be people like you , or in other circumstances , that could come up with , false positives for certain kind of drugs . 
on the other hand i think there 's certainly some professions that ought to be tested because of their responsibility for the public welfare , and certainly people in the transportation industry specifically . 
but in many cases whether or not an individual has a problem with drugs , it 's not even going to effect anybody but himself and his own family , perhaps depending on the kind of drug he might be on . 
but and eventually that 's going to show up anyway in the way he works , and so on . 
but there 's so many things that it would make a difference . 
i guess i would not want to have anyone in my family victimized by a bus driver or a train engineer or something like that , who , had n't been tested . 
like i said , i 'm very much pro testing , 
and this is why . 
i know this sounds like a slogan for the government , 
but we are in a war against , drugs . 
it 's horrible . 
you do n't know whether the person sitting next to you anywhere is on drugs or not , 
and it takes some drastic steps at this point . 
and i think , personally , the drastic step has to be that you ca n't work if you continue taking drugs . 
it 's as simple as that . 
make it , not necessarily difficult , 
make it difficult enough . 
but make it so that it 's not glamorous . 
it 's glamorous taking drugs , 
or at least it seems that way . 
according to what you hear . 
really i guess we 're kind of lucky . 
they go to our church , 
and it 's the son and so on , 
and he was friends with my children , 
and he 's really the only one that i know of personally who got himself really messed up having been involved with drugs . 
but i know of a number of other people who have gotten all messed up . 
most of these are young people . 
i work in the education system 
and so i have a little more contact with that . 
but the effect that it 's had on this young man 's life is so dramatic that it 's heartbreaking 
and he may never really be a productive member of society . 
but sadder than that , he may never be able to have a normal , happy life because it has strung him out so that he has anxieties now that are almost uncontrollable . 
he puts himself in the hospital fairly regularly thinking that he 's not sure if he 's going or not . 
he 's so messed up . 
and he 's now a young man about twenty who just got really down the wrong path . 
and i do n't know that his problem would ever have been detected by drug testing . 
but seeing what drugs did to him makes me realize what it could do to people in the work force as well . 
it 's horrible . 
then , 
let 's answer the second half of the question . 
what limits ought to be put on it , do you think ? 
the limits would have to do with what i 'd alluded to before , that one positive on a drug test , would not constitute dismissal or grounds for whatever the company or agency might have set up for those who genuinely have a problem . 
treatment before dismissal type thing . 
there needs to be more than one test , 
and there needs to be some measure of certainty before anything drastic happens . 
there are lots of things that are involved there such as , perhaps denial of insurance for someone , 
it would be unfair , 
and people who are on medication , for example , or even people who might be of the gay community , 
and i 'm not an advocate for that particular segment of society , 
but i think that there does n't need to be fuel to the fire for discrimination 
because it makes a bigger problem . , 
i 'm not sure , though , when we talk about what rules , if any , that we should say , certain segments should not have to be tested . 
i really do n't see why , 
personally , i think that 's what i was about to say is that everyone needs to be tested . 
and it may be it 's not feasible to do everyone , 
that it could happen . 
would be some measure of protection . 
but the bottom line is that if you 're going to stay clean and straight , then you 're going to do that because you want to . 
there 's going to be some measure of incentive reward or whatever , 
but the reward ultimately comes down to what you want . 
so i 've got to agree with that . 
that 's very true . 
it sounds like we agree , anyway . 
i think so . 
i think we did pretty good . 
i guess that 's about it . 
i guess if that 's all we 've done 
and i guess we 've talked long enough . 
it was nice talking to you . 
it was nice talking to you , too . 
do you have any hobbies ? 
right at the present time nothing real special . 
i kind of like gardening 
and i 'm kind of into camping and vacationing , that sort of thing . 
i 'm an avid gardener , 
i consider that a hobby . 
i do n't know , 
i guess that 's a really true hobby , 
but i think anything that you enjoy , 
it does n't really have to matter , 
it could be working on cars could be your hobby really . 
really 
i kind of enjoy doing that a little bit , too . 
i guess if you make money at it , it becomes a vocation . 
i do n't know , 
i told my husband you go out some to work on the car , 
it 's not worth getting all mad and fighting and hollering at each other when it goes wrong . 
i says , you go pay to have someone do it . 
because it always seems it goes wrong when you try to do something . 
i guess as far north as you are if you like gardening , you 've still got a couple months to go , have n't you ? 
right now we start our seeds inside . 
that 's right , 
you would , 
we 'll start them inside 
we usually start them right in the house . 
my sister tries to set up a greenhouse on her back deck 
and a wind storm come and knock it down . 
but she 's had really good luck . 
next month , 
actually , if you start it in a couple weeks and you can get your plants outside , pretty much the end of may , 
you can leave them outside . 
you might put them in the ground just the first week of june 
but we can put potatoes in the ground in the middle of may . 
i 've lived in texas and new mexico most of my life , 
i spent one winter in north dakota , 
and i remember that it was on into may before it really started warming up , 
we live really close to lake champlain , which is in the champlain valley , 
so we 're about two weeks ahead of everyone else out on the outskirts 
because that kind of moderates the weather a little bit ? 
we are a little lucky . 
my brother lives ten miles from here 
and he gets frost 
and , his crop gets killed . 
you 're right across the lake from plattsburgh ? 
from plattsburgh air force base . 
i had a cousin that was stationed there , plattsburgh for a while . 
he remembers lots of snow . 
it 's , depressed economically . 
i do n't know why we have so much going for us , 
i really do n't . 
i just wrote my resume up because 
and they 've had layoffs recently , 
but when we got hired here never any layoffs , never , never , 
i 'm a technician . 
when they start getting rid of technicians , 
i 'm working for t i , texas instruments , down here . 
i interviewed with them . 
but i did n't want to go to texas . 
even though my mother 's people are from georgia . 
we 're getting to where , we 're straying , i guess , 
stick on the subject . 
interesting thing that i do is with , gardening , 
my sister grows flowers that you can dry , 
and you can make dried flower arrangements 
and you can get real handy with the hot glue gun . 
and we made some really nice christmas wreaths with dried red flowers and dried white flowers and eucalyptus . 
you know what eucalyptus is ? 
it 's sold in the hobby stores and nurseries . 
it 's got a kind of a peculiar smell to it 
at first i 'm why do people like this , 
but it is kind of a nice smell after a while . 
people put them in , 
i did n't realize what it was for a while . 
and i 'd wonder what is that , 
and then one day i realized that it was eucalyptus . 
it 's , like a fad thing . 
i do n't know . 
i 've never heard of it , 
is that the stuff that koala bears eat in australia or something ? 
it is . 
maybe that 's why they 're so slow . 
i guess they 're stoned on the stuff or something . 
it looks really potent stuff . 
but i think it 's the greatest stuff in the world , though . 
i make all kinds of things with it . 
we make all kinds of things just with dried flowers . 
i almost want to start a business doing it , 
but i 'm so timid when it comes to starting a business . 
that 's a big step , 
it is , especially with being in on the creative aspect and the crafty end . 
after a while you make some stuff , 
then you start looking at it , 
go , this is kind of ugly . 
but i know someone who does a lot of woodworking for a hobby . 
he does it i would n't imagine why , but to get out of the house , away from his wife , 
because he 's a seasonal worker , 
he works in the construction . 
and up here it 's almost a pattern , 
and you see your fathers do it , 
then their sons do it . 
what they do is they work construction , 
then they get laid off for twelve weeks in the winter . 
and this guy was going nuts , 
and his son built him a garage and got him some planers and things and set him up , 
shapers and planers and routers . 
and he makes , all kinds of furniture for his kids , 
and he makes little kids ' furniture . 
he gets right into it 
there was a program on t v down here on the educational channel here a while back about a lot of little companies of one and two guys up there , 
this particular one was in maine and new hampshire , just kind of out in these little towns they 'd be in , 
they may be the same kind of people you 're talking about . 
they 've got twelve weeks to do something , 
and they 're making furniture and just things like that during the winter 
and then they go off and do other things during the summer . 
it 's a really , good thing because it 's keeping him sane , 
plus he 's getting on in his years now . 
he 's not that old , 
but he 's getting to the point where he needed an extra boost , to do something like that . 
and it 's , hard work . 
i could n't imagine taking raw lumber and trying to make something out of it . 
he dowels everything . 
man , 
and it 's all got to line up . 
and i do n't think he goofs too much , 
i do n't see too much scrap around . 
that 's something . 
our temperatures down here , we 're starting to get pretty consistently in the seventies and eighties 
i 'm envious . 
so as far as planting outdoor stuff , matter of fact , tonight i was planting some trees out back tonight , 
and it 's really nice , out tonight . 
is it going to be really dry ? 
almost hated to come . 
i always plant trees in the fall . 
i do n't know why 
the cold weather can kill them 
these were trees that wintered . 
i do n't know where they came from . 
they come out of nurseries mostly in missouri and places like that . 
and they come down here 
and they 'll sit in the nurseries here 
and they 'll go ahead and , leaf out . 
so what i 'm planting or actually transplanting is trees that are already leafed out . 
that 's good . 
i guess they say you can plant them in the spring or the fall . 
mostly , i think in a place where it 's really cold they do it in the fall , let them winter through the fall , 
but down here it 's done both ways . 
it just kind of depends on what you 're planting , 
and when you have time to do it . 
my sister does flower gardens . 
she gets right into it . 
she spends lots of money on them . 
and i guess a lot of people do do that . 
they landscape their whole house with flower gardens . 
she 's got just a small patch of lawn and just flowers and mulch tree bark all over her lawn . 
during the summer down here , the normal kind of flowers , there 's very few of them that will really do well . 
everything does real well here in the spring until about first part of june 
and then the heat sets in . 
it gets , 
most of those kind of plants are just barely staying alive , let alone make flowers . 
do you have a lot of shade trees around your house 
we 're in a relatively new area . 
we 're kind of out of the natural tree area . 
we 're kind of up on a slope . 
you do n't have a lot of tree coverage ? 
where we are right now there are very few trees . 
because going to make , 
this was pasture land , 
but down the hill here a little ways there are parks that look like jungles . 
my grandmother passed away , 
but where aunts are they have these huge pecan trees , 
and they just shade everything . 
where is this ? 
it 's in georgia . 
in georgia , 
it 's right outside of macon , 
i like the way that idea of the south is , 
but when i think of texas , i think of nothing but , no trees and just grass . 
i tell you what , 
there 's two parts of texas , east texas and north texas . 
atlanta and dallas are almost identical in every way , weather and everything . 
the two cities are very identical , 
it 's that dry heat ? 
it 's , not dry at all . 
it 's humid . 
where is it , 
was n't it houston 's humid ? 
houston is awful . 
houston is really humid . 
it 's humid . 
what type of lawn and garden work do you do ? 
i do it all . 
i see . 
do you have a garden ? 
i try to grow a vegetable garden 
we do the same thing . 
i just have a small plot 
it 's ten feet by five feet . 
i have two plots , 
one 's ten by ten 
and one 's fifteen by four . 
i see . 
it 's a long skinny one 
you do a lot more area than i do . 
all the rest of my backyard is pool and decking 
it 's all the dirt i have , left in my backyard . 
i see . 
i see . 
i enjoy fiddling around . 
it 's cheap entertainment . 
it 's nice to get out in the open air . 
it is , 
and especially when the weather 's not too hot or , not raining or whatever , 
that 's right . 
but sometimes i wish i had more space . 
excuse me , go ahead . 
i grow a lot of things , a lot of food . 
and sometimes i want to plant something , 
there 's not enough room to plant . some of those things like the things that vine like cucumbers , or squash or something , like that . plant one of those 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
takes a lot of room . 
and it takes up your whole space . 
it sure does . 
i made mistake one year and planted some cantaloupe , 
what a mistake that was . 
they just run all over , the place , do n't they , 
they do . 
it was very good 
it just takes up like you say , a lot of your garden area . 
it 's the first and only time i 've done that . 
we do n't do anything exotic 
we just do tomatoes , bell peppers , radishes and turnips not turnips , carrots , beets and things like that . 
the basics . 
that 's what we do too . 
my wife used to plant a few snow peas . 
i do n't really care for snow peas . 
she just plants a few for herself . 
peas 
i got a few peas out my garden a couple of days ago . 
did you really ? 
the first one , they started them indoors this time . 
i read it , 
i see . 
we do n't start anything indoors 
we , just wait until the weather warm enough to stick it in the ground . 
i guess you can get an earlier harvest by doing that , 
probably so . 
you can get a head start on it . 
but sure is a heck of a lot of work . 
i guess it , would , 
because you got to , watch them every day , and keep them watered 
and i do n't think i 'll do it again . 
it will make them taste better i 'm sure . 
i enjoy it . 
i come home from work 
and i usually say hello to wife and kids , and then go out and fiddle just walk around the yard and inspect it 
you got to inspect it , 
and the kids want to swing , 
and i push them on swing . 
and i mow my own lawn . 
and i do n't have a sprinkler system . 
i do n't enjoy watering . 
especially , 
this is the first home we 've lived in we 've had a sprinkler system , 
and it is really nice , 
it sure beats dragging hoses around . 
you can have it come on just early in the morning . and off by the time you 're up and about . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
it 's really nice . 
i usually get it started for my wife 
and she moves it around ever other day . 
i 'll have to admit i do my own yard . 
i really do n't enjoy doing that . 
i enjoy having a nice looking yard , 
i just do n't enjoy the work , that it takes to get it done . 
i had a lawn service to do my yard for me during the real hot summer months until i retired 
and now i 've lost my excuse for that 
so i have to , 
for the last couple of years i 've done it myself . 
sometimes i wish i could get one of these chemical services to come , out and spray for weeds , and fertilize , and all that and take that one step out of . 
but they want too much money . 
it is kind of expensive , 
it is . 
of course , the chemicals themselves when you buy them , they 're expensive too . 
but it 's still be quite a bit cheaper to do it yourself . 
that 's right . 
if i have a problem discipline i think , i really need to get out and apply something , 
and i screw around and do n't do it or wait too long or something . 
and the weed come up , 
that 's right . 
and all of a sudden you 've got to do something else . 
that 's right . 
i 'm kind of bad about that . 
i enjoyed having a lawn service 
but now i have the time 
and i really do n't , want to spend the money for it . 
if you , enjoy it too you can get out in the morning before it gets hot and do it and stuff , when you only have to , 
that 's right . 
i 'm not limited to , just mowing it on saturday morning , 
i can do it on most any day of the week . 
when the days start getting a little longer i can start doing it in the evening after work . 
that 's right . 
when we get an hour more , 
when they rollback an hour . 
that 's coming up here pretty soon . 
is it this weekend ? 
i do n't know . 
it 's pretty soon . 
i really do n't know . 
it just seems like i here it on the news the day before . 
and i think it 's coming up here soon . 
i believe it is too . 
are you having any trouble with bugs in your garden ? 
not a whole lot . 
i seldom use anything harsher than seven dust . 
i do n't really like to put a lot chemicals on it 
but then , again , i do n't want the bugs eating it either . 
it seems like they come in spurts . 
one year i did n't put anything on 
and i did n't have any problems . 
next year i was planting some broccoli and some of those cabbage loppers , or whatever . 
they were just covered with them , 
i did n't go out there for about three days 
and i went out there one day 
and the plant was nothing left but a stem , 
that 's right . 
they devoured it that quickly . 
they really go through it , 
and , they , have a good appetite . 
they really do . 
i picked off like twenty of them 
cutworms will do the same thing to your tomato vines too . 
they got that b t spray this , year . 
and i 've been watching them every day 
and i have n't seen any signs yet . 
so , if i see any signs i 'm going to spray them , 
i did something a little bit different this year that i have n't done before , 
it 's kind like this box shape , 
so i got four pieces of two by twelve and joined them together and just made a box . and put in a whole bunch like eight hundred pounds of topsoil and manure 
and various other things , 
raised it up . 
the good stuff . 
and i 'm hoping especially with those big tall sides on there that maybe i 'll have less of a bug problem 
at least they 'll have a hard time crawling up the thing . 
my backyard is sloping 
so i built a box up 
had to build , the low side up . 
and i had sandy loam hauled in . 
i had a dump truck come and dump it . 
on my driveway that 's what they do 
and then , i had to wheel barrow it in . 
but you can improve your own soil there 
but the texas soil is n't the greatest , gardening soil . 
that 's right , 
you , really do . 
you know what i mean . 
that 's right . 
when we had our pool done i had them to leave some extra loam for my garden 
so i had a lot of loam out there to start with 
do you have a rotor tiller ? 
i do n't , 
i did it by hand , 
small enough , 
just do it by hand ? 
it was n't too much of a job . 
i 'd like to get one of these little small ones , that you see in all these gardening magazines . 
it would be handy . 
and it weighs twenty pounds or , something like that . 
my neighbor across the street has one . 
he always uses it to dethatch his lawn , 
i see him out there , 
and i guess it has a thatcher attachment to it . 
it might be handy , 
i 've never seen one . 
i have a friend who has one 
it 's , just a hassle to go up 
and it 's a fairly large one to , 
heave it up into the back of the van , bring it home and , check it back and just grab it , 
if i , just go to my garage and grab it . 
that would be neat , 
that would be nice . 
we 've had a garden for years and years and years , of some size , 
i ca n't remember a year when we did n't have one of some kind . 
what have you got growing right now ? 
tomatoes that are starting to bloom 
and i 've got a few carrots up 
and i 've got some radishes up , 
and as a matter of fact , i 've already done a second row of radishes . 
and the green onions are coming along . 
snow , 
what kind , 
excuse me . 
what kind of onions do you grow ? 
do you grow ? 
for the first time we planted them this year . 
they are the best . 
we tried to find them last year , 
we screwed around and waited too long 
and i could n't find a nursery that had any of them left . 
but we 've got some this year . 
snow peas are up 
and my wife does a small herb garden on the side . 
i see . 
they 're up and doing fine . 
those onions we planted twice as much this year because we got , onions 
and they lasted from about when you harvest them about a month from now or so , or six weeks , from now , until october , 
and we really missed them when they were gone , because the ones from the grocery store just ca n't , compare . 
that 's kind of a , let down . 
she made these onion rings that were so good , 
i bet , 
and , you do n't realize how many dishes you put onions in , that it 's an ingredient , 
they were . 
that 's right . 
we use a lot , 
we sure do . 
and it was just like everything you put it into tasted so much better . 
one nice thing with onions and bell peppers at least you can chop them and freeze them if you have too many . 
we froze a lot of peppers . 
we let some turn red . 
we did that too , 
and some we do green 
and then my wife puts them on pizzas . and chops them up in recipes and things like that . 
makes a colorful salad too . 
put them in salad , 
you 're making me hungry here . 
we planted some yellow peppers this year . 
we 've tried it , before 
and 
we have n't had much luck with it 
we 're going to try it again this year . 
yellow peppers . 
they have some little buds on them 
hopefully they 'll do something . 
sounds like you have a real good garden . 
we enjoy fooling around with it . 
just let me see what i got , 
i got the peas 
and i 've got some broccoli onions some radishes and beets . 
beets . 
we 've got some beets , 
and i planted potatoes too . 
i 've never done potato . 
we used to do it at home when i was a kid , had a huge garden . 
the potato , 
they 're delicious 
you do n't seem to get that much for the space , 
they do . 
it does take some space . 
some potatoes 
and i 've got some tomatoes still growing , in containers , 
i see . 
i got to wait for a place to free up . 
our kids love pickles 
and we all love pickles 
so we 're going to try to grow our own pickles this year . 
that will be neat , 
we 've got some good hybrid burpee pickler cucumbers 
and we 're going to try to see if we can pickle our own 
and , so , have you seen how much pickles cost in the store ? 
that will be neat , 
they 're expensive . 
i know it . 
i said , why are they so expensive 
they 're just a bunch of little cucumbers ? 
i do n't know unless it , labor intensive or something . 
i really , do n't know . 
i guess . 
but we 're going to try that , and see how that works . 
that will be interesting . 
an experiment . 
i 'd like to just try something new , every year that , i have n't tried before 
that 's interesting . 
i 'll let you go 
what would you have at a dinner party ? 
lately , since i have children i 've cut down on having dinner parties . 
but when i do i try to keep it pretty simple on things that i can prepare ahead of time , 
i have one recipe for a really good type of a meatball . 
it 's called burgundy meatball 
that sounds great . 
it 's really good 
and you can make it ahead of time and then make the sauce when you 're ready to serve it . 
that 's one of my favorite things to serve . 
i think it would probably depend on whether this was a formal or a informal dinner party . 
but if it was informal , my first choice would be crawfish . 
because crawfish , everybody over here likes crawfish 
but i would n't have to worry about satisfying my guest . 
shrimp fettucini is real easy to make and everything 
and it 's usually well liked by people , i guess , 
i 'm just a seafood fan 
how do you cook crawfish ? 
in fact , i just came back from the grocery store 
and being in texas we do n't have too many people that eat crawfish 
but they had live crawfish , on sale . 
you 're not supposed to eat them dead . 
you eat them dead 
do n't buy them that way . 
you can always tell whenever they 're cooked if they 've been dead for a long time because their tail straightens out . 
and you 're not supposed to eat those because they 're bad for you . 
i 'll remember that . 
so if you ever go in a restaurant , order crawfish , 
it does n't happen very often because it 's just an accident 
but if the tail is straight on it then do n't eat it . 
but you just put lots of pepper 
and you just boil them 
and they 're absolutely wonderful 
but they 're a pain to peel for some people . 
once you get used to it they 're real easy 
but if you have nails or anything you can plan on those being shot . 
. when you serve it do you shell them and then serve em too ? 
i do n't know 
it depends . 
if there was a bunch of college kids coming over for a dinner party they would shell their own , 
we 'd just have crawfish and beer or something 
but if it was more formal like if i was working environment then i would probably shell 'em or at least disconnect them from the head . 
but there 's a , big thing over here that everybody sucks the head . 
still have . 
so it would just depend . 
that 's the best part of the crawfish . 
sucking the head 
but i do n't know 
it just depends on what type it was i guess 
but you can buy the crawfish shells already peeled 'n everything 
and usually you use those for frying or to put in salads or to make a sauce with or something like that 
but you can go ahead and buy 'em cooked and shelled 
and they 're more expensive of course 
does it taste a lot like shrimp 
it really does 
i like shrimp better 
just the crawfish it just has a taste of its own 
it also depends on who 's cooking it and how much seasoning they use stuff like that 
and also to get totally off the subject of crawfish lots of vegetables and hors d'oeuvres and stuff like that for a dinner party i think that that really helps 
we have a friend another couple where the husband is the one who cooks all the time 
that 's what i need 
that 's what i wish i had 
but in our family i am the one who cooks 
and i really enjoy it 
it 's gotten a little more difficult with kids 
but i really do enjoy cooking 
and we have them over for dinner back and forth quite a lot 
and before i had my second child we sort of had a contest going where he would cook and then the next time it would be my turn and i 'd try to outdo him and then he 'd try to outdo me 
was really a lot of fun 
i bet 
that got pretty competitive as far as who could come up with the best recipe 
it did 
we tried to be fancier or 
that would be fun 
it was a lot of fun 
it 
it was a lot of fun 
sometimes it might be the candlelight 
and sometimes it might be the picnic out back or something 
that 's right 
that 's fun 
it was fun 
and we threatened to make the other two make us dinner one time just to even it out since we seemed to be unfairly doing all the cooking and they were doing all the enjoying 
that sounds right 
i 'd take him up on that 
it does 
except that knowing them they would probably do something ridiculous and terrible just to make sure that they did n't have to do it again 
make hot dogs or some potato chips 
that 's about how much i can cook 
i 'm doing a lot more cooking now than i used to 
but that 's only because my mom just started working 
so she 's tired when she comes home in the afternoon 
so i try to have things cooked for her 
but i usually try to stay out of kitchen 
that 's nice 
i do n't know 
not one of my favorite hobbies 
it can be fun if you have the time 
but a lot of times it 's too much of a rush really 
my grandma speaking of those meatballs again she owned every christmas and easter 
whenever we have the big get-together over at her house she makes this meat ball sauce 
i do n't know 
they are just kind of quarter size meatballs 
and they are absolutely delicious 
i 'm sure she puts wine in it because she cooks everything with alcohol 
i do n't know 
i would be interested in getting that recipe for you if you have it around 
it 's in the other room 
i do n't know if we have enough time for it 
it 's real easy 
one of the unique things in this it 's a pound of ground beef some bread crumbs an egg whatever seasonings 
so salt and pepper and chopped up water chestnuts which is something different 
that would be wonderful 
makes them a little bit crunchy 
you need to chop em up real fine 
but it makes them crunchy 
and that adds something new to it 
and then the sauce is just made with bouillion cubes water burgundy wine and cornstarch instead of flour 
so it 's not a thick rich type of a sauce 
when you use corn starch in gravy when you have chinese food that kind of a gravy or a sauce that comes with a lot of that 
they use corn starch instead of flour in all of their sauces and gravies 
and it gives it a bit of a different consistency 
how long do you cook the meatballs 
the meatballs after you form them fry them in a pan until they 're browned on all sides 
and then drain off all the grease 
then what i usually do is i freeze them 
and then when you 're ready to serve them then you cook the sauce and then put the meatballs into the sauce and heat it 
if they 're frozen it may take a half for them to thaw out 
but then heat them thoroughly in the sauce itself 
let them simmer in the sauce itself 
and it 's real good 
that sounds great 
especially the fact that you can prepare the meatballs so far in advance 
if you are having a dinner party on wednesday night you could do it on a weekend 
and then freeze them 
that would be great 
i 'm sure that i 'll be involved in a big company 
and i know that my future husband will be 
he 's going to be working for chevron in houston 
i 'm sure that dinner parties will come in handy 
you 'll meet friends 
invite the boss over and friends at work 
i have to impress the boss and clients cause i 'm in public relations in school 
so my whole job 's going to be based on my clients 'n stuff like that 
so i 'm going to have lots of dinner parties 
and have to take 'em out to eat 
right now i 'm taking a class on ettiquesy and all the little bitty things that i did n't even know 
i thought for sure i 'd been raised properly 
but i 've been doing a lot of things wrong i did n't know about 
so is there anything else 
i think we 've covered the subject 
i got some interesting information about crawfish 
it 's good cause i was curious about that today when i saw those for sale 
you need to try em 
they 're wonderful . 
i will 
i 'm sure my husband will be surprised , 'cause we were talking about them the other day before 
ironically enough i 'm sitting here with a cast on my leg because i resumed an aerobics class the night before last . 
i ripped the ligaments in my right ankle . 
exercise is not supposed to do that to you . 
that 's what the nurses kept saying as they laughed all the way down the hallway . 
do you do anything on a regular basis ? 
off and on , 
off and on . 
right now i 've been off 
but , i 've been going over to the fitness center . 
my husband 's a t i -er in the unit here . 
three times , 
i try to go over there at least three times a week , 
and i try to walk at least five times a week . 
do you , when you go to the , 
i have to ask you , 
and if this is getting to , 
we 're not supposed to get too particular , 
but i 'm just curious , 
when you go over there does it bother you in terms of how things are arranged , either at the dallas location or the spring creek , in terms of , it 's so much of a weight orientation , weight lifting , et cetera . 
i 've been going to spring creek . 
i have n't been to the dallas one now in a couple of years . 
it 's not that great , 
and i go to the spring creek one on and off . 
but my husband 's working over there 
and he just goes to the dallas one . 
but i just do n't , 
it 's just so much weight lifting . 
even the spring creek one has a lot of weights in it . 
that 's true . 
or is that what you 're into 
i 've used the nautilus equipment . and the bikes , and stair climbers , and stuff like that mostly . 
i do n't use the free weights 
i like the tread mill and the stair master myself over there . 
i like those too . 
and the pool when it gets warmer . 
and the pool , 
that 's great . 
i know . 
what i did was i went to a jazzercise class in a new location in richardson near where we live in north dallas , 
this is really a stupid thing that happened , 
but they have the gymnasium flooring 
and then they had about three feet of linoleum around the perimeter in the back where i usually stand in any class like that i go to . 
instead of having that level they had a chrome strip that was n't level , 
and it was about four inches deep and then about a seventy degree angle . 
and as we were jumping around or doing something i just jumped up and came right down on it . 
the orthopedist called it a basketball injury where the ankle just rolls under you , and it snapped . 
i know . 
we went to whatever in plano , 
and the emergency room was like a bad comedy show . 
and the doctor said , you did n't do anything . 
there 's only a one in five hundred chance that the radiologist will call you . 
that was tuesday night , 
and wednesday night the radiologist called me at work 
and i was on crutches , 
and he said , i think you better call an orthopedist . 
so we went to one 
and he just put a big old cast on it . 
put a big cast on it . 
for about four weeks . 
four weeks , 
i like aerobics , 
not that much , though . 
i was off for about six months too just for some other surgery i 'd had , 
but i was pretty much in shape walking 
and , this is one of those things , 
like this orthopedist said , he said you 'd be surprised how many people come in here with things like that because they are active . 
i was real embarrassed , 
but i felt kind of stupid . 
those things happen , though . 
they do . 
i guess i 'm glad that nobody really noticed , i guess you could say . 
because i got up and started jumping on it again . 
that did a lot of good , 
i 'm sure . 
really . 
i enjoy aerobics , 
and i do it because i like it , 
i like the music and that kind of stuff . 
i like the music , 
but i 've been unable to do that , because i hurt my foot about five years ago . 
i broke my heel . 
and 
how 'd you do that ? 
in aerobics ? 
actually i was up on a ladder , and fell off . leaned the wrong way . 
and when i came down i hit with my full weight on my foot , but on concrete . 
what 'd they do for that ? 
did they have to cast it ? 
they had to go in and do surgery . 
they put a pin in it . 
so the impact , would not be good . 
as i permanently damaged the cushion under my heel the normal cushion that you have there . 
i ca n't do any jumping up and down because it makes it hurt . 
that makes sense . 
so are you , in terms of other things not running , but playing a little bit of tennis , 
can you not do stuff like that at all ? 
i have n't tried that . 
i do n't know . 
i bet it 's been thirty years since i played tennis . 
mostly into just walking and stuff like that . 
that 's probably the safer way 
i 'm always afraid they 're going to fall over and have a coronary . 
and there was my ego when i went ahead 
and i went , i can do that 
i 'm real tall , 
and i 'm not heavy , 
but when you go easy you need just . 
and i just do n't think it 's healthy 
all that pounding all the time . 
, it 's not really good for your knees . 
that 's the other reason , 
and , i do n't know , 
this was just something freak that happened to me , 
the floor was uneven . 
the two dissimilar floor coverings were not level . 
and at first after it happened i thought , maybe that 's a handicap access , 
and then i said no , 
that 's just the way it 's constructed . 
and my husband being a t i engineer , 
i said a few things to him when i got home , 
i said , who has engineered that ? . 
one thing that i like , like swimming , 
you like that a lot ? 
i like swimming . 
do you like that , what that voice said , 
do you like to exercise because you want to or because you have to ? 
i liked it because i want to , 
it makes me feel better . 
that 's how i am . 
if i do n't do it i just feel like i do n't have as much energy . 
it seems like when you exercise and expend the energy that you 'd be tired , 
but it 's the other way around . 
it curbs the appetite and helps with the calories and all that stuff . 
and i need all the help i can get . 
that gravity factor , 
i know . 
it does get you . 
like that orthopedist said to me , he said , do n't worry diane , 
he said , you 're at thirty something , 
but you 're on the upper side . 
he said that , do n't worry , 
he says , even if you were n't doing anything that would start to happen to you . 
a lot . 
because i said , i 'm not that heavy , 
i 'm not heavy , 
maybe ten to fifteen pounds like any other human being . 
i said , why do i feel like i need to start pushing myself more . 
and he goes , human nature . 
and then you see these little girls in these little bitty things , 
and they 're all twenty-one years of age . 
but luckily at there 's a little more diverse clientele . 
that 's true , 
they do . 
except for the guys that lift the weights . 
they do intimidate . 
i try to go real late or real early before they get there . 
there some things i 'd like to try , 
but sometime when i ask , i just feel like , am i stupid or what . 
that 's one thing i like about the spring creek place . 
at least one of the fellows that 's there at night and on weekends is real helpful . 
and his name is b j . 
there was some girl there . 
i 've been there maybe a dozen times . 
it 's terrible . 
sometimes i feel like i 'm in a singles bar . 
that 's true . 
and i have n't noticed that up at spring creek . 
i have n't either , 
it 's not that far of a drive 
and i 'm glad they did that . 
you 're not missing anything at the dallas renovated site . 
it 's not at all anything worth talking about . 
i thought maybe one of these days i 'll drive over there and check it out . 
i live in richardson , 
but it 's about half way between the spring creek and the dallas site . 
that 's actually where this happened to me , out in plano , 
but it 's all the same to me . 
richardson , over on campbell and park hill there 's a new recreation center . 
and as we were doing it , too , everybody noticed that there were all these big guys of assorted nationalities . 
mumblex walked out , 
i was one thing , 
i have purple tights on . 
and they 're going . 
but in general i like dance a lot , 
so aerobics is something i 'd hate to give up . 
but he kind of said something to me about probably not as bad as your foot , 
but he just said to me , maybe you ought to try bicycling 
you probably will for a while , because it 's going to be real tender . 
he told me eight to twelve weeks . 
not anything . 
i said , but you 're only going to put the cast on for a couple of weeks . 
he said , yeah , 
they tried to put me in some kind of immobilized walker , because he does n't like to put casts on when it 's warm . 
the more they tried to get my foot in the more i screamed , 
i could n't adjust that . 
i know what you mean . 
you know more about this stuff than i do , obviously then , 
not fun . 
you 're walking okay now obviously , 
i have a slight limp from it , 
but it matches one if i have one on the other side . 
anything else about exercise we can talk about . 
other than i need to go . 
me too , 
me too . 
i need to go actually get something to eat here . 
it 's great though , 
i really do enjoy it . 
thank you , sandy . 
what would you say your opinion is on gun control ? 
i do n't know . 
i 've had mixed emotions when i listen to the radio and watch t v about the different things that are happening . 
i 'm against it 
but on the same token i went out and purchased a gun just because i wanted the right to do that . 
so i have a rifle in the house . 
the ammunition is probably so old i 'm afraid to use it . 
but i bought it for target practicing and also because i wanted a weapon . 
how do you feel about it ? 
i think down here in texas they do n't have a waiting period on handguns . 
and , i think they need that . 
and i have a pistol . 
it 's a little twenty-two 
and i have a twelve gauge shotgun . 
an- i do like to have my guns . 
i do n't know if i 'll ever use it . 
and like you , my bullets to my little pistol 's probably about three years old . 
my gun has n't been shot in a year or two . 
but i like to have them handy . 
up in new england where i 'm from you had to get a permit before you could buy any ammunition . 
and i thought that was really good . 
takes two weeks for that system to process your request to buy ammunition . 
you have to get a permit from the police station in your local area to do that . 
i 've never heard of anything like that . 
that would be nice . 
the criminals that are going to get their guns one way or the other . 
i agree . 
i think one of the things that needs to happen is to stop the impulse buyer from buying it quickly and , maybe putting a week 's waiting period or something on it . 
but if someone 's really determined to pick up a firearm you can pick it up any place . 
and you can get them really cheap . 
i know 
i had a waiting period on my pistol because i was down in tennessee . and they had a waiting period 
and we bought it there . 
how long was the waiting period out there ? 
about nine days . 
that was n't too , too bad . 
because if you 're going to go buy something of that nature , i think you 're going to have some idea as to what you 're going to do with it . 
you 're not going to react that quickly . 
in other words you do n't have a need to go buy a gun to go shoot it the next day . 
at times i think they ought to have a waiting period on all firearms . 
i do too . because it does n't make any difference whether it 's a pistol or a shotgun , i suppose . 
they both do the same kind of job . 
a shotgun hurts worse than a pistol does . 
i suppose . 
i never got shot with either one . 
but i do n't know , 
i think you could recover from a pistol but not from a shotgun . 
a shotgun 's got too much of a spread . 
or at least ours does . 
you have a little thing on top of the barrel where you turn it , 
you can make it either tight or as loose as loose can get . 
and the spread changes . 
i 've got a manual single shot 
and i guess it does n't have any automatic features to it . 
the further away i get , the , wider the shot gets from the target . 
and the closer that i get , the tighter that it gets . 
it 's got a hell of a kick to it . 
my husband had a police gun at one time . 
and i shot that thing one time . 
almost knocked me down . 
i forget , 
i think it was a three fifty-seven . 
i 'm not sure . 
do you belong to a gun club 
he belonged to one awhile back . 
we 've only been here in texas for about a year 
and we ca n't even find a place to shoot . just for target practice . 
no kidding . 
i 'd love to get used to that shotgun . 
we traded his pistol for that shotgun . 
the , clubs that we 've got around here are kind of expensive 
but it 's well worth it . 
you can go down and shoot up against a sand bag and some targets and have competition . 
i 've never really joined a club because i have n't got the time . not because i have n't got the desire . 
there 's an annual membership fee that 's fairly high . 
plus there 's an initiation fee that you have to pay because of first time member . 
so the whole process can cost you a hundred fifty dollars to join the club . 
plus you have to pay for the ammunition in any tournaments that you would join in . 
he went mostly just to shoot at paper targets . 
but they used speed and accuracy and all that . 
i think that the gun clubs serve a useful purpose . 
i 've never thought of that . 
that 's a good point . 
even after you wait your nine days , if you do n't know how to handle it , it 's just like putting someone in an automobile that does n't know how to drive . 
and you give him a license because he waited nine days . 
and . 
he could not only shoot himself . 
he could , mishandle a weapon . leave it at home and let a child get at it . 
we was living on a navy base down in memphis 
and this one guy decided to play lonesome cowboy or something . 
and he was twirling his gun around and shot himself in his foot . 
he was fortunate . 
he could of hit something else . 
he went tumbling down the steps along with shooting his foot almost off . 
he broke his leg and collar bone and a couple of other things , being , mister cowboy . 
i ca n't remember what the term was going around . 
it was about four or five years ago . 
i guess that would be a good idea . 
about private citizens selling a weapons ? 
like if you wanted to sell your pistol to me . 
how do you feel about that ? 
do you believe there ought to be legislation guiding the buyer and the seller ? 
or do you believe that you ought to be able to sell your system because you own it ? 
that 's a hard one because we did that . 
but i think there ought to be some rule against it . 
the person who sells the gun ought to protect themselves because if that gun 's registered to them and somebody else uses that gun in something , the cops are going to come to you . 
is n't there a way to deregister yourself after you register a gun ? 
i have no idea . 
i 've only had one gun 
and i 've kept it the one gun that was in my name . 
is it registered ? 
the rifle that i 've got is not registered , 
and i do n't know why i never registered it 
i do n't think you have to register a shotgun . 
i think it 's voluntary . 
my husband has a thing . 
my kid is jumping on me . 
i ca n't hardly talk . 
my husband feels that they 'll come and collect everybody 's guns . 
i guess that could happen . 
it 's just like the social security system . 
once they gave everybody a number 
and now they 're making you get one at birth . 
and once they have your number , they have your identification . 
and if you try to do anything like not identify yourself to the government , they know who you are . 
and everything about you . 
and , that 's true . 
bu- they know , how much money you make a week , 
my kid is banging . 
i was seeing what they was banging on . 
i 've lost my train of thought . 
i 'm sorry . 
that 's all right . 
you were talking about what the federal government knows about people . 
they probably know everything from , half the time what time you go to the bathroom . 
they probably do . 
that 's a little bit extreme . 
but they could know anything and everything about you . 
and i 'd like to have my gun . 
if they go to banning them , i 'd lose my gun 
but we would n't lose our shotgun . 
and we 're wanting to get a couple of more that no one knows about . 
do you find it difficult picking up guns that are not registered ? 
i do n't either . 
i can buy some today if i wanted to . 
just put up the money . 
we got a thing down here called a shopper . 
it 's a bargain thing . 
you go and always see guns in there . 
five to seven guns a day . 
it comes out every tuesday . 
and there 's no waiting period on that . 
none whatsoever . 
we sold a refrigerator through it 
and it took us all of twelve hours . 
to sell the refrigerator ? 
and i 'm sure it 'd be even less for somebody with a good gun . 
and i think the federal government is really far away from control . 
i should n't probably say control . 
i mean regulation . 
control is something that i would n't want the federal government to have . 
but i would like to see them have a monitoring capability so that they know who has what weapons . 
i agree with you there . 
they do have too much control over us already . 
we could look at our paychecks and see how much control they have . 
unfortunately we vote for the people who spend the money , 
so i ca n't complain too much . 
i guess so . 
i do n't know . 
what kind of movies have you seen , lately ? 
a lot , 
the last movie i saw was the ninja turtle movie . 
obviously you have kids . 
that 's right . 
but my preference is the one we saw before that was silence of the lambs . 
i have n't seen that one yet . 
that 's an excellent movie . 
the last movie i saw was sleeping with the enemy . 
was that good . 
i 'm not a big julie roberts fan . 
but i was a lot more impressed with her than i thought i would be . 
that 's good . 
it turned out to be a better thriller than i was expecting it to be . 
it was a pretty good movie . 
silence of the lambs kept me on the edge of my seat . 
i 'm ready to go . 
it has n't worked out that way yet . 
it looks good if you like thrillers , anyway . 
it is . 
and i do . 
in fact , people i 've talked to said that they had n't slept real good for a while afterwards . 
i love them like that . 
i like all ranges of movies , 
but i like that where they run tense . 
they keep me guessing the whole time . 
it was really interesting . 
what other movies have you seen then lately ? 
i assume you were talking about the new ninja turtles . 
the new one , of course . 
is that any good , 
i 'm sure i 'm going to be seeing it because in a week , 
and she 's got two boys that i took to see the first one . 
so i 'm sure i 'm going to see the next one here real soon . 
amarillo . 
i did n't see the first one . 
my husband said it was about the same lines . 
then it wo n't be too bad . 
so . 
it was n't impressive necessarily , 
but it was better than it could have been . 
and i was impressed with the fact that it was n't that childish . 
you know what i mean . 
my daughter 's five , 
she understood everything . 
she goes to almost all movies with us except r rated . 
and she really enjoyed it , 
but it was on a higher level where there were some things that kids did n't understand that adults did , 
and i liked that . 
i think that 's important 
if parents are going to have to go you ought to make it at least semi for them too . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
it 's pretty good . 
but we take her to just about every movie , 
and she does really good . 
we 've taken her from real young , 
and she does real good . 
like i said , we do n't take her to r -s . 
so , if and when we ever get a baby-sitter , like we did with silence of the lambs , we go see it . 
i 's about to say , you 're not going to take her to that one , i 'm sure . 
what was the last comedy you saw ? 
what was the last comedy we saw ? 
. good question , 
good question . 
we do n't get to go that often , 
but something on the tip of my tongue , 
and i ca n't think of which one it was . 
. i ca n't remember . 
in fact i guess this was the last movie i saw 
i said that wrong , 
the last movie i saw was the hard way with michael j . fox . 
but that sounds good . 
that really was n't too bad . 
he 's this actor 
and he 's playing a cop . 
or he 's hanging around with a cop trying to pick up the stuff . 
i think he did an excellent job in not being too much of a cop . 
there were times when he 'd be running with a gun or whatever . 
he did n't look like a cop when he did it . 
that 's neat . 
the part was hard , to do that . 
because everybody grows up looking at these cop movies and trying to imitate them or whatever . 
and i thought he did such an excellent job of not going that far . 
by the end he was looking more like a cop . 
but at the beginning of the movie and all through the middle part he was trying to get it , 
but he was n't there yet . 
and you could tell it , 
and i guess that was a real good acting and writing job both or directing job . 
i think they did a real good job of that . 
and james woods did an excellent job as the cop . 
i like him . 
and there were some definite tense moments , with him in there . 
probably the last comedy we saw , now that i think about it , is home alone . 
i had seen it before christmas , 
but i took a date to it about a month ago . 
so , i 've seen it the second time not too long ago . 
it was really cute . 
i really enjoyed it . 
of course , the bad thing about it was the second time i saw it , i did n't really enjoy it as much , 
and i was kind of surprised at that . 
i thought that would be one of those that i would love to watch over and over . 
maybe it 's just the idea of my reaction to the first time . 
i had laughed so hard i was hoarse . 
i was hoarse getting out of there . 
it just was n't as funny the second time because i had just gone overboard the first time . 
i do n't know 
maybe so , 
maybe so . 
it was a great movie though . 
i loved the movie . 
i did , too . 
i 'm looking forward to this summer , 
naked gun two and a half is coming out . 
i love those movies . 
i do too . 
they are just slapstick . 
you have to see those twice to catch everything . 
you have to see them more than that . 
i still catch things in airplane that i did n't catch . 
it 's amazing 
i do too . 
i love those movies 
i do too . 
i really do . 
so i 'm looking forward to seeing that because that looks hilarious , as they all do . 
, we try to go a couple times a month to see a movie . 
it 's just getting so expensive . 
is n't it though . 
but that 's at least the good thing about the texas organization letting you buy the tickets cheaper . 
that 's exactly what , i was going to say . 
i keep not doing it until after i 'm there 
i know , because we can go spend fifteen dollars just getting in the three of us . 
easily . 
and then if you want popcorn and stuff it 's incredible . 
i do n't understand why they charge you out the kazoo for both . 
popcorn is not that expensive . 
nowhere near that expensive . 
so they get you at the ticket booth and then try and get you at the popcorn and coke . 
and , it 's just the idea that these actors live in such lavish style . 
it 's as simple as that . 
we just keep breeding them . 
and as long as we keep paying the money for it , they are going to keep paying them . 
i guess so . 
have you seen dances with wolves ? 
that was an excellent movie . 
we 're waiting for the video . 
do n't . 
do n't . 
that needs the big screen . 
it really and truly does , because to get the feeling of when they 're chasing the buffalos and everything you 've got to be where you feel it . 
you really truly do . 
i guess my first instinct was to wait for the video , too . 
but i 'm glad i did n't . 
i really and truly am . 
that was one movie i came out impressed . 
i really and truly did . 
i have absolutely no problems with them winning seven oscars . 
none at all . 
normally i 'm one of these people that i do n't like one movie taking all the honors . 
i wanted him to win best actor on top of it , 
like i said , i would n't given the supporting actresses either one . 
somebody made an interesting observation , 
now that i think back on it , i 'd say i ca n't believe that either . 
she was the only indian to have her hair done at all times . 
you know what i mean . 
it was just too perfect at all times . 
that was a mistake that they made . 
they should n't have done it . 
the supporting actor , he was good , 
but from what i heard , the guy who got it was better , 
so i can see that . 
you think my daughter would like it ? 
there is one spot that was just a little bit on the gory side . 
she does n't mind when we cover up her eyes . 
no problems . 
it 's just the idea that there is this one spot where the white man has come by and killed a bunch a buffalo and just stripped the hides . 
that is the one reason i do n't want to see the movie is because i love buffalos for some weird reason , 
and i know they 're fake . 
and 
that , and plus part of it is the idea that he goes with them on a buffalo hunt . 
so they are killing buffalos in it . 
but they do n't stress that very much , 
they really do n't . 
if she enjoys movies i think it 'll work pretty good . 
that 'll be good . 
it 's a long movie . 
and i heard the video 's even going to be longer . 
they did a lot of stuff that they cut out . 
i may have to see the video . 
that 's true , 
i had n't even thought of that . 
they said there 's a lot that had been edited , because of the length and that they wanted in , 
so they 're going to put it in the video . 
and that way you can watch it at your leisure . 
there are certain things you ca n't do with a video 
and the idea that they may put a little extra in it is a good idea . 
videos , of course , are not cheap either 
and so the idea of getting a little extra with it is a good idea . because they make bundles of money off those things . 
i know it . 
is n't that ridiculous . 
we have cable which helps a lot . 
i do too . 
but not enough . 
we keep holding out . 
i 'm getting to the point where i watch nick at night . 
i have n't had too much of a chance to watch t v lately . 
so probably everything i going to say is kind of dated . 
i can understand that . 
it 's that time of the year . 
my wife and i just recently moved into our house . 
so we 're spend a lot of time on the house and out in the yard and things . but . like to keep up to date too . 
since i got out of college , which was about five years ago , my t v viewing started to tend more towards documentary , news programs , things like that . 
something that 's going to keep mu up to date . 
i think when you 're in college you have more of a regular schedule in terms of , you can watch every week . 
that makes a big difference . 
so 
where i was home 
where i watched things on a more regular basis . 
but right now , the last things i watched regularly was thirty something when it first came out . 
did you all ever watch that ? 
i started , too , and kind of worked away from that . 
i have a hard time sticking with something on t v , because , it gets real aggravating if you miss it , for a week or two . 
you feel kind of left out . 
but . 
i know , 
but i tell you what , 
we 're really strict with our kids about television , 
and one night , couple weeks ago , it just happened that we were exhausted 
and they wanted to watch , 
and we said we 'll sit down 
and we 'll look at what you want to see . 
let 's just turn it on and see what 's on . 
we could not find anything that had any kind of redeeming value in it . 
i believe that . 
so it was prime time , 
it was seven thirty , eight o'clock on a week night 
and we have cable , 
and there was n't anything on any channel , 
it was just dribble 
it was n't even funny 
that 's right . 
it was n't creative , 
it was the worst i 've seen . 
i have not watched prime time , week night t v in a real long time because i was shocked . 
i know exactly how you feel . 
you know what i 'm saying . 
that 's right . 
and i guess i kind of became numb . 
nothing surprised me any more seeing it on the t v . 
and then all of a sudden , i started paying attention to network t v again , once in a while . 
right now we do n't have cable . 
and it 's surprising how much it 's changed 
the whole moral situation , everything , is just gone one whole complete direction different . 
and we do n't have any kids yet , 
but i feel the same way . 
it 's really tough to find something that 's going to be good and interesting for the kids . even cartoons , 
you watch some of the cartoons , 
and kids are n't even going to understand half the humor that 's in there . 
none of it 's probably damaging , lot of times . 
it 's just , a necessary evil . 
when our children were younger , when they were four years old , three years old , five years old , we just had sesame street 
and that was about it . 
but now , in order to seem humane and normal , we do allow them to watch cartoons and stuff . 
but it 's , just one of those things , 
you have to shut your eyes or not listen or something , because those drive you crazy , if you 're in the room . 
but it 's such a shame , because it could be so good . 
that 's right . 
i do n't understand why the public puts up with it why the networks think that we enjoy that kind of stuff . 
that 's true . 
it 's hard to believe that nobody can be any more creative than that . 
that ca n't be the problem . 
it must be the marketing pressures , 
and their demographic studies that they do that show that everybody 's i q has dropped dramatically or something . 
i 'm glad you said it 
i feel the exact same way . 
i sit and watch some shows , 
and i 'm embarrassed for the people that are even involved in the show . 
i know . 
why do you do this to yourself ? 
why do you do this ? 
i know , 
i 'm trying to think if there 's anything i do , 
i like stuff that 's on great performances , 
and , we used to watch mystery quite a bit and things like that . 
stuff that mostly , on public t v . 
we had this rule in our house for every hour of regular t v that we watched , we had to watch an hour of public t v . 
there 's an idea . 
that was just the rule . 
and if they saw us watching something , they 'd say , what did you see on what 's new , 
the children 's program at the time was called what 's new . 
so we had to give a little oral report before we could watch our program . 
that 's pretty good . 
do you watch sports on t v ? 
are you a sports fan ? 
i ca n't handle it very long . 
i 'm a sports fan , 
but it 's kind of like reading magazines any more . 
if half of the time was n't spent watching commercials , it probably would n't be so bad . 
you 're missing an awful lot . 
i 'd personally rather see a game on t v than fight the crowds at the stadium . 
but , i do n't sit down , 
that 's true , 
i 'll sit down for the big games , the super bowl , and the championship things like that . 
but i do n't follow any team . 
i check the scores the next morning , 
and i know how everybody 's doing , 
and that suffices me . 
but , i like good humor once in a while . 
i enjoy that , 
you do n't have cable now , 
i was going to say they have a comedy channel now . 
but again you 're in a situation where you 're watching mostly commercials , 
and then you 're trying to pass the time to wait until the next comedian comes up . 
you know what i did . 
there was a time there where i could tape things 
and then i 'd fast forward through the commercials . 
saved a lot of time that way . 
it works , 
you bet , 
but , that takes too much planning . 
i do n't know , 
if there 's any series that i pay attention to , i try to watch cheers once in a while . 
is that still real good . 
it used to be real good . 
it is . 
is it . 
in fact , i think it 's on tonight . 
i just got in from outside , 
so i 'm kind of out of it . 
things like that , 
and i consider that fairly intelligent humor . 
you can tell , 
they pick up the words every once in a while . 
is n't it such a long running program . 
they do have good writers for that . 
that makes me think , 
do you watch saturday night live at all ? 
i try to . 
we try to stay up , too . 
it 's getting harder and harder . 
ten years ago was n't so hard to stay up . 
it was just automatic , too , 
no matter where you were you stopped and sat down and watched it . 
i think it 's come around again . 
it 's gone through cycles . 
we stopped watching for a couple of years in the middle there , 
but we started watching again . 
but it 's real different show than it was when it started . 
it 's funny now , 
and it 's better , 
but it 's real different than what it used to be . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
but you ca n't be outrageous . 
if you keep that same format . there 's only so long that you can be outrageous . 
that 's for sure , 
that is for sure . 
i guess there are a few things around still 
but you have to hunt hard for them . 
sounds like you pretty much agree . 
i guess so . 
been good talking to you . 
good talking to you . 
take care . 
you too . 
what kind of cars are you looking at ? 
we 've test driven the oldsmobile delta eighty-eight and a cutlass supreme and a used cadillac , about three or four years old because i get married in a couple of weeks 
and i have two kids 
and my fiancee has two kids 
so we need a car that 's big enough for six . 
and so two weekends ago , we went , car shopping and looked around . 
we found something interesting at crest oldsmobile cadillac up there on central expressway 
that in addition to getting a new car there , they can get you a car that 's new but it 's been a demonstrator model for two or three thousand dollars even cheaper than the best deal they can give you for a new car . 
so , they call this program cars , 
and they come , with a new car warranty , 
and it just seems to make sense to me to get the most car for your money to get something like that . 
that 's a real good deal . 
in fact my dad recently got a pontiac six thousand 
and he got a demo . 
and it 's been a real good car 
and it 's like new 
and it only had very , very low mileage on it . 
and so i think he got a real good deal . 
of course , they 're fully loaded usually . 
so i think it 's a pretty good option . 
i think so too . 
the oldsmobiles that you 're looking at , are they the demos 
or they used , 
are they new . 
the ones that we were test driving were the new ones there . 
they may be the demonstrator models that the sales reps drive around in . 
and then the cadillac is definitely a used car 
the guy said it 'd been on the lot about thirty minutes . 
he says it 'll probably be gone in , 
and it 's probably gone by now . 
those things go fast . 
of course we ca n't consider getting a brand new cadillac , because those are twenty-five to thirty thousand dollars . 
the price already drops in half . 
so then it becomes more realistic . 
that 's what i 'm thinking about on my next car is do i want to get another brand new car because last two cars are brand new 
or do i look for a used car that 's maybe two , three years old but that 's low mileage and in good shape . 
but i kind of worry about getting a car that 's that new with low mileage on it because you wonder why did the person that owned it want to get rid of it . 
is it a lemon , 
or is something wrong with it 
that 's right . 
but i guess that 's a risk you have to take . 
that 's right . 
you can reduce that risk by having the car checked out , 
if you 're going to look at fifty different cars you do n't want to do this 
but if you 've narrowed it down to one or two you can have the car checked at an independent service station and have them go through it from top to bottom and tell you if they can find anything wrong , because they do n't have any financial interest in it . 
and then you 'll have a realistic assessment of what you 're getting . 
about how much do they charge to do something like that , 
do you know ? 
i 'm thinking around twenty or twenty-five dollars . 
that 's not bad . 
it 'd be well worth it if you 're considering buying a car . to find out . 
i would think so . 
i would think so . 
it 's kind of hard for me to talk about buying cars because i just got mine paid off about a month ago , 
is n't that a good feeling . 
i do n't want to think about buying a car for a while . 
i just want to enjoy not having any car payments for a while and enjoy watching my savings account get larger and hang on to the one i 've got for a few years because it 's almost four years old , 
that 's right . 
but it 's still in great shape . 
i have a mazda r x seven . 
what you can do is take your car payment and put it in the bank for three or four years 
and when you 're ready to get another car just pay cash for it . 
if i continue taking good care of it , it 's going to hold a pretty good resale value 
and if i consider going the used car route and save up some money , i should n't have too much trouble at all . 
i would think that 's true . 
could you hold on for just a moment ? 
i 'm on a cordless phone , 
and i was picking up some background noise , 
so i just switched the channel up on it . 
i did n't want to interfere with whatever they 're trying to record . 
that 's fine . 
but i really enjoy the car i have now , 
and i do want to hold onto it and enjoy it while it 's not having any mechanical problems whatsoever , 
that 's right . 
in fact it never has 
that 's right . 
and it 's been kind of nice , 
and surprisingly enough after four years , i 'm not tired of the car at all 
and i want to hang on to it while it 's still being a good car and while i 'm not tired of it and while i 'm single and can handle a two seater for now and get that out of my system . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
because one of these days i 'll be getting a six seater probably too . 
eventually . 
i 've bought three cars , 
and i 've always bought them new . 
the first car i kept for thirteen and a half years and got a hundred and sixty-one thousand out of it . 
the second car i ever bought i drive to work now . 
that just turned ten years old , 
and i 've got a hundred and twenty-two thousand miles on that . 
so that 's kind of in the way i 've done things is to get things that are new and then keep them forever . 
but my car is using two quarts of oil a week now . 
about a quart every hundred miles . 
but , it runs fine , 
it 's just very thirsty . 
if i just keep the oil in , it seems to be okay . 
but that 's a sign that i 'm going to have to do something sooner or later . 
what kind of car is it ? 
it 's a buick century . 
are you going to trade it in on this new one 
my fiance is selling a nineteen seventy-eight cutlass supreme that she has . 
it 's actually , in better condition than my car . 
and so she 's going to get some money for that and take some money from the bank and then try to make as much down payment as possible to keep the monthly payment low . 
so she 's going to sell it rather than trade it in . 
that 's probably the best thing . 
you lose four to six hundred dollars a trade in . 
or maybe more than that , as i 've learned . 
when i bought my r x seven best offer i got for my other car was twenty-five hundred . 
i turned around and sold it myself for forty-two hundred . 
there you go . 
you can do much better . 
i 'm glad you 're taking care of it yourself . 
they may give you supposedly a better deal on your new car you 're buying , 
but they just , are going to give you that much less for your trade in . 
that 's fact . 
what i think . 
i think you 're right . 
but strangely enough , the best bargaining i had made with a dealer on my car was also the same place i got the best price trade in , 
interesting . 
but it 's a place in arlington , 
i bet you it 's kind of what i decided . 
maybe because it 's outside of dallas they are giving a little bit better prices , 
plus i was going through that t i fleet discount program . 
did you use it at the car shop place . 
it 's before they had that . 
i had gone over to texins 
and they had a little file where they said which dealers participated in the fleet program , 
that 's right , 
and what you could expect , they said a five percent over cost and then options at cost and everything . 
so , i figured out a price based on that . 
that 's good . 
but i guess i got a pretty good deal , because i went back to the town north mazda right off central and offered them the same price as what i knew i was going to be able to get it for in arlington 
and they said there is no way you can get this car for that price , especially if we add on the equalizer and the cruise control . 
he said , you 're going to get a car that 's got flood damage or hail damage . 
and they just laughed at me . 
and i went the next morning to arlington , 
and they gave it to me for that price . 
and what 's so funny , i knew they were going to pull it from town north because that 's where the white one was . 
is that right . 
and they had already told me , we located one at town north . 
so it was that same car . 
unless you 're selling car with hail damage and flood damage , i got the car off your lot for that price . 
and you laughed all the way to the bank . 
i did . 
and i laughed real hard when i took it in for the two thousand mile checkup 
that they required you to do . 
and i took it to town north , 
and sure enough i saw that guy , 
and he recognized me . 
he said , dana , 
and he kind of looked down and saw that car , 
and i 'm sure he probably knew what was going on the very next day 
because i told him there 's a place in arlington that 's going to give it to me for that price . 
that 's right . 
he said , they 're not . 
and the next day they pulled the white car and took it to arlington . 
so i 'm sure he knew . 
such a deal . 
i loved it . 
i sat there , 
and i just had the biggest grin on my face . 
i 'll bet you did . 
it was kind of nice . 
dana , it 's been really interesting , 
i appreciate talking with you . 
good talking to you too , don . 
have a good evening . 
good luck in your car hunting . 
thank you much . 
i have n't heard anything about the proposal myself , 
but i do n't know if it 's their proposal or one that 's being seriously kicked around . 
i have n't either . 
i 've always felt for a long time that i think that all young kids ought to do a stint primarily in the military . 
most countries require that now , 
they have it mandatory for at least the young men , 
i do n't know about the young women , 
i do n't know if they have to serve in the military , too . 
a lot , 
you take israel 
everybody does . 
i do n't think it 's a bad idea , 
teaches a lot . 
i went in the service when i was eighteen , and stayed in for ten years . 
is that right ? 
did a lot of growing up . 
i bet . 
you have to . 
my father had been in the military . 
i did n't do it myself . 
and that 's how he put himself through school basically . 
he came from a poor immigrant family , 
the family was n't wealthy , 
so he had to do something to , put himself through school , 
do it himself . 
and he did . 
and he was very successful . 
my parents wanted to send me to college , 
and i was dead set against it . 
i had wanderlust . 
and i got in , 
and after wasting the first six years , partying and everything else , i decided , time to settle down and do something . 
so i started to work on my education . 
course my job was such that i could n't do it as much as i wanted 
and still i ended up going two semesters when i got out just to get my degree . 
that 's pretty good . 
but , i 've been in school ever since . 
that 's good . 
i guess . 
i do n't know . 
there 's other kinds of service to the country that could be done , 
working in the national parks , working 
all this money that we 're throwing away to pay people to go out and do things when we 're paying all these welfare recipients , 
if nothing else , get a group of them together and take them around to old folks places and let them cut the yards , paint the houses . 
we 'd learn service to other people in this country . 
get something out of that money . 
country would benefit , 
my next door neighbor when i was growing up , worked for the unemployment division , 
and his sole job was just tracking down people who were getting benefits and able-bodied 
that right . 
and he had all kinds of horror stories . 
these guys go down there and get their unemployment checks , 
and , back in those days they also use to give you booklets good for clothing and gas , and things like this . 
they get all this stuff together and sit down and have poker games , 
and i have a hard time dealing with that . 
what i hear one time , i think it was on paul harvey 's radio segment , that he said that if the money that goes into welfare each year was to be given directly to the people without all the middle people in the government bureaucracy , each person would receive forty-five thousand dollars . 
i was astounded . 
i do n't even make that . 
i know . 
you think about the layer of bureaucracy between the money and the recipient , 
and somebody 's taking that away . 
and there 's easily probably six or seven times that amount being spent on the bureaucracy . 
no doubt . 
it 's totally ridiculous , 
and when i first got in graduate school i was going into public administration , 
and quite honestly i just got so fed up with it i just could n't stand it any more . 
is that right , 
this is the kind of thing you look at . 
you sit there 
and when you 're writing up budgets , you wonder , how much money do we need . 
you need x number dollars for the recipients 
but you need x number dollars to administer the program . 
just ridiculous . 
this is ridiculous . 
it 's sad . 
it is , 
it 's pathetic . 
there 's got to be a different way . 
there 's got to be a better way . 
but it 'll never happen . 
these people out here getting that money are big voting blocks . 
what would happen if the required young people to do service to the country , 
what should they get in return , i wonder . 
and i would limit it strictly to something like tuition assistance . 
give an incentive . 
educational or vocational training or something . 
something that 's going to help them along the way . 
and they 'll help the country eventually , too , because rather than having a bunch of uneducated people we can have educated people , 
look at the statistics , 
and that 's only going to help . 
it 's sad . 
one in five americans ca n't read 
adults , that is , ca n't even read . 
and we 've got the lowest rates of the civilized countries in science and math . 
what are we becoming ? 
we 're becoming a service country . 
as opposed to what we were twenty years ago . 
we were an industrial giant , 
and now we 're not going to do it because everybody is beating us at the game . 
we taught them how to do it , 
and they did it better than we do . 
simple as that . 
because they have the ambition , i guess . 
simple as that . 
which is good for them , 
but on the other hand , we kind of lose out . 
it 's terrible for us . 
i think that if young people had service to the country might give them more ambition . because they learn that serving other people is a good thing . 
and it can be good for them , too . 
you go to the mall 
and you see fourteen year old kids flaunting money , because the parents give them money to go down and play video games all night 
i know . 
for what . 
i know . 
give me the money 
and i 'll teach them something good . 
you know why they do it is so they can get them out of the house . 
that 's my other complaint . 
parents are n't parents any more . 
they 've relinquished their parenting . 
one of the other subjects is do you think the public school systems are in trouble ? 
as a substitute teacher for a year , i can say . 
i talked with somebody else about that another time , 
and when i 's in graduate school working on my master 's degree in math , i was teaching as part of the program . 
and i just love teaching . 
that 's probably the most fun i had . 
and it helped me out because i learned things and learned how to do things differently . 
and when , i thought , i 'd like to teach . 
but for what . 
i do n't want to live in a little one bedroom apartment the rest of my life . 
that 's a sad thing to think , 
and that 's kind of selfish on my part , 
and i admit that , 
in a way it is , 
but you have to look out for yourself , 
that 's right . 
that 's wrong . 
i 'm not saying that garbage men should be paid less , 
i saying teachers should be paid more . 
. 
they do an absolutely necessary job , 
i have a great deal of admiration for these people who can go out there and do that . 
but there 's a sense of priorities here , too . 
what 's more important , 
picking up the garbage or educating our kids . 
they both have their place . 
on the other hand you take a garbage man in new york city starts out at twenty-six thousand dollars . 
that 's pretty good . 
i bet you there 's a whole bunch of homeless people up there who would take that job for thirteen thousand dollars a year . 
my other pet peeve is unions . 
it 's ridiculous the way unions have gone . 
there was a time when unions were needed . 
and they served a good function . 
and they served a good function , 
but there are enough laws on the books now that unions are outdated , 
and they 're only there to perpetuate their own power structure . 
i remember , the company my dad worked for , the people there went on strike against the management . 
it was a steel manufacturing place , 
this was during a time when the import steel was so cheap , 
and they were having a hard time . 
and they told the strikers there , we need you to come back and get this stuff done . 
or else we 're going to be out of business . 
and they would n't come back , 
so they went bankrupt . 
and they all lost their jobs . 
and that 's really what happened to the steel industry in this country . 
so many times you had the coal miners and steel workers going out at the same time . 
and that took care of that industry 
that 's right . 
and i 'll tell you , 
detroit worked awfully hard on stopping car manufacturing in this country . 
and they 're trying to do that now with the imports . 
we 've never caught up , 
and i do n't think we ever will . 
it 'll be a tough road , though . 
here it is , 
and we 've got to go into partnership with the japanese to build cars . 
and they only did it because they were embarrassed that they 're so good at it . 
that 's about right . 
back to the original subject , 
i think youngsters ought to go out and do some public service , 
i do n't care what kind it is . 
it teaches them pride in their country . 
and pride in themselves , too . 
that 's right . 
you could organize something just within your community . 
same old thing . 
that 's right . 
that 's like eagle scouts . 
and that 's a great idea . 
i think they ought to take them and just have sort of like a manpower pool and say we need somebody ... 
are you on an exercise program now 
i exercise pretty regularly . 
i lift weights quite a bit . 
i run occasionally . 
let 's see 
what else do i do . 
play golf some , 
and i work out on a hanging bag . 
i 'm brown belt in karate , 
so i keep up with that a little bit . 
how about you . 
the only exercise program i 'm doing right now is walking . 
i 've got a nine month old , 
and i 'm four months pregnant with my second , 
and so , at the time , walking seems to be the best . 
it 's something i can do with her , plus does n't tax me too physically . 
i have enjoyed aerobics in the past , 
and i enjoy that because i like the group association like exercising with other people . 
and that 's my favorite way to exercise . 
that 's neat . 
i do walk some too . 
my wife 's about five months along 
so she 's been walking quite a bit , 
so that is a good exercise for that . 
it 's nice to do it together , too , i guess . 
my husband and i use to walk together , 
but our schedules do n't coincide as well as they used to , 
and so , we very seldom get together to walk 
but , when you work out , do you pretty much do it on your own schedule , 
or do you go to groups 
i do it on my own schedule . 
we used to try and belong to clubs or the y , stuff like that , 
but it was so difficult to go on a regular basis , to drive the distance you have to go . 
save the fees , 
we just save the fees and buy some of our own equipment . 
and then you can do it whenever you want i guess . 
i 've got a weight bench , 
and we got my wife an exercise bike , 
and i use that sometimes too . 
it 's a little more convenient , 
but , i guess you 're not as dedicated if you do n't drive over to do it . 
i guess it depends on the person , depends on how motivated you are . 
because my husband used to work out three days a week at the texas instruments gym . 
and then i would just go on saturdays . 
but , since the first of the year neither one of us have been going . 
so , i guess , like i say , we 've been paying these fees and not going , 
so it 's kind of a waste of money if you do n't take advantage of it . 
i think you really have to be disciplined . 
i try to work out at least a couple of times a week , 
and i think you really have to , at least twice a week , just to maintain the shape that you 're in . 
with the walking , i think they said you need to walk at least twelve miles a week for it to be aerobically beneficial . 
and i have two friends . 
they have babies that are about the same ages as mine , 
and we 've been walking every morning 
when it was cold we would go to the mall because you ca n't take the babies out very easily . 
so when we go , we do about fifteen miles a week , 
but the last little while , for one reason or another , we have n't been real consistent . 
so it 's a little harder when you 're depending on other people to do it with you because you have to meet their schedules as well , 
but i enjoy doing it more when i 've got other people with me . 
i do n't feel obligated to do it . 
i enjoy it . 
if i feel too obligated to do it , i start to rebel , 
and i wo n't be as consistent with it . 
i understand . 
did you exercise between your first child and your second ? 
i exercised pretty well up until i was pregnant , 
and i started having pains . 
so i 've calmed down everything except , i was working out doing aerobic exercises as well as the walking , 
and i had to stop the aerobics because it was just kind of painful . 
but the t i rec center has an aerobics program for , prenatal and postnatal aerobic type thing . 
and i was going to wait until about my sixth month and then start that . 
i did that with the second baby , 
and i went to my exercise class one day , 
and then she was delivered the next day . 
so , it would seem to be real beneficial . 
maybe it speeded up the process and all that . 
i think it made parts of it a lot easier . 
and is this your first that you 're having ? 
then i do n't know how much you 've been through it , 
but i think parts of it made . 
and , i 've talked to a lot of ladies that exercise with one pregnancy and did n't with the other , 
and they said that the one they had exercised with was three or four times easier . 
having both of them natural , 
the first one was natural 
and going natural the second , 
and it 's rough 
but it 's not as bad as i thought it would be , 
and i think the exercise helped . 
that 's good . 
so , do you work with t i ? 
my wife has been working with them . 
then she could go if she were interested . 
i think , that 's the class that meets on saturday mornings . 
so she could find out if she wanted to go . 
it 's kind of fun because with the first pregnancy all the other ladies except one were on their first pregnancy , 
and they would talk about exercise and just general things relating to the birthing process . 
and so for us it was educational as well as exercise beneficial . 
at least it 's something you enjoy . 
i know a lot of people that talk about exercise and say , i do n't want to exercise , 
it 's too much work . 
but there 's a lot of different things you can do that are enjoyable that you do n't have to strain yourself or sweat or be real sore afterwards . 
that 's right . 
and sometimes if you get a little soreness you feel like , i 've done a good job because i worked myself to that point . 
but i guess that you do n't want to overdo . 
but have we reached our limit ? 
i 'm not sure how long we 've been talking 
i think we 've talked about six minutes or so . 
it 's been good talking to you . 
been good talking to you as well . 
i hope your baby comes out well . 
yours too . 
i do n't know , 
do you do a lot of camping ? 
my husband and i have n't done a whole lot of camping , 
but we bought a van last year , 
and we were hoping to do some camping in the van , 
we did go camping in oklahoma . 
last year we camped in a tent , 
and there were two other couples with us 
and there was , uh , state park . 
and it was really nice . 
up here some of the state parks are really nice 
and some of them are n't , 
some of them are pretty rough . 
they just have outhouses , 
they do n't have a shower room or anything , 
but some of them are really nice 
they have showers and full bathrooms , 
but i do n't know , 
i 've been camping a couple times 
but i 'm not a real avid camper , 
a lot of people i know are , 
i do n't like really camping in the rough . 
i like the little necessities like having electricity available and running water and showers and things like that . 
we went once to a lean-to 
there was n't any electricity on the camp site 
but it was all right , 
we only spent two nights there . 
i would n't want to spend more than two nights . 
i would n't want to go for a week , 
but two nights is good . 
especially there was a little store close by , 
so , it was pretty nice . 
it 's right on a big lake , 
and there 's a lot of boating out there , 
and we went up there to hopefully be able to get on the water a little bit 
but it was still , too , cold . 
it was pretty early in the year . 
up here you got to wait until , august , until the water warms up . 
it 's not that bad 
but it 's still pretty chilly . 
i do n't know , 
i have a tent 
and i fluff out in it , in the backyard and stuff , 
but this thing about camping that bothers me is you 've got to pack everything 
it 's dirty , 
so , you ca n't keep the dirt out of the tent . 
i do n't know 
we have a seven year old , 
it 's pretty funny , 
stay out . 
we have a dog 
and that 's just about as bad as a kid . 
they like to play in them . 
i do n't know how you can really keep the inside of a tent clean . 
i do n't know . 
other than taking your shoes off right before you walk in or something and sweeping it out everyday , it 's really hard to keep the sand and dirt out of it . 
what we were doing , we were just going to say , we 're just going to sleep in the tent and hang out at night , 
what he wants to do , was play in the tent . 
it was this is not working , , 
you ca n't do that , 
you get the tent all dirty . 
plus you get it all wet , 
we were at a beach site , too . 
did you have , a big tent , looks like a sitting area type like a two room type ? 
but i was just thinking of getting one those for the yard because they are really nice 
and up here we have quite a few mosquitoes at nighttime . 
we do n't really have a problem with that in these areas , 
and in oklahoma when we camped i really did n't notice a problem with bugs . 
and i noticed that , 
i 've lived back east before , 
they 're terrible , 
they 're really terrible . 
just some of them are known 
but there is one that 's out in this big lake 
and its , mosquitoes are terrible 
and then there 's this other one that 's more up in the mountains 
but it surrounds a man-made reservoir 
and there 's no bugs , 
that 's the whole thing that everyone told me , 
i was going to go to , little river state park , 
that place is great , 
there 's no bugs . 
because we were having a really big problem up here in certain areas , 
almost destroyed the tourism in one town , because of the mosquitoes , 
they 're so , bad . 
it 's a really nice area , 
i 've been there before 
i could n't imagine living just sixty miles north of them 
but they were plagued with mosquitoes . 
and you can go outside in the daytime , all right , 
but the minute the sun sets the mosquitoes come out . 
just the very second , 
it 's really strange . 
they must work on that , 
it gets cooler when the sun sets 
and then they all come out . 
have you ever taken any of those lights , 
have you ever used those ? 
i never really noticed how effective they were , 
i bought them 
i really did n't get to use them like , there 's mosquitoes 
we just sort of lit them . 
and we were n't bothered that much by mosquitoes , 
so , we did n't really contribute it to that . 
i ca n't see all this little smoke buckets , 
they work , 
but they 're suppose to work really well . 
i 'm in my paperwork here , 
that 's what i do when i wait for a phone call , 
i get in my paperwork . to find my most important parts . 
but i do n't know if i 'm going to go , 
i wish 
and i could really talk about gardening or something , 
you can talk about that a lot , 
but i do want to go again . 
we just moved into a house , 
maybe in the backyard , 
but i do n't see going on a camping trip probably until next summer . 
i 'd like to go camping cross-country , 
i just got married less than two years ago , 
so , we do n't have any children yet , 
so , it 's easy for you to go . 
we have a van 
and we can just throw a couple of sleeping bags in the back of it . 
it 's not really camping the way most people picture camping in the tent 
i do n't know 
but that sounds , 
it really does . 
that is to have a nice vehicle where you can have everything in it , plus your tent . 
my brother has a real nice pop-up . 
and he just tows it behind his truck . 
and he 's got three kids , 
so , his kids will sleep in the truck , in the back of the bed . 
and they sleep in the pop-up . 
those , they 're kind of nice 
but they 're also flimsy when you really look at them . 
but when you get inside they 're really nice , 
but then when you look underneath them , it 's just got these little wheels and this little axle , 
it 's 
and then a big windstorm it would pick you up . 
he did have a problem when he went camping last year in beavers bend , oklahoma , , 
a storm came in 
and it started raining really heavy 
and everybody was trying to flee the campsite , 
everybody was getting stuck in the mud . 
what do you do when you get a really violent storm like a tornado , 
just stay in your truck . 
theirs was so bad , 
and they were so close to the water that the water was coming up , 
and they had to get out of there . 
then , were they successful ? 
they were . 
but it took them a little while ? 
they decided that , that was enough camping for the weekend . 
did they get stuck ? 
they ended up getting out . 
they ended up helping several other people though that were stuck . 
so , they evacuated it . 
the whole campsite was evacuated . 
i think some people that had fairly sturdy vehicles or whatever if they had a winnebago or something and they were farther in away from the water , i think they stayed . 
it was either that or their truck was going to go floating downstream . 
i know i like to get right on the water , 
we have lean-tos up here . 
i really like them , 
like i say , they 're just kind of more sturdy than anything , 
just , 
they have them right at the campsites ? 
they 're lean-tos . 
they 're pretty nice , 
it 's like a little house except the whole face is open , 
and the one time that , we got one , it was overlooking the water 
but it was a big embankment , 
i wanted to get one right on the water . 
we had an electrical storm too , 
and it was neat sitting there watching it , 
it was raining , 
when we called home , everybody said , we were worried about you in that storm ... 
this topic is , is russia a threat to our security ? 
i think they are more of a threat to their own people at this day and time . 
how do you feel about it ? 
they do have a major internal problem . 
everybody wants to defect , 
and i can understand why . 
i think their biggest problem is just obtaining food to live , 
so when you have the basic needs being unmet , i do n't think you think globally as far as being a threat to other people in the world . 
so , as soon as they get their own home country taken care of , then they 'll consider , what they can do with the rest of the world . 
i believe communism is very much waning . 
it 's pretty much on the way out of the door , insofar as the strong hold that they used to have , 
and the russian people are all realizing that the communist system does not work to their satisfaction or their way of surviving in this world , 
and their rebellions right now is the result of that . 
if they can get the army , or the military to sway to their side , i think that it will be on the way out eventually . 
it 's just a matter of time , because , in the baltic states they have already massacred so many people who protested , 
and that has n't set too well with their diplomacy regarding the , outcome of their affairs . 
what 's your synopsis ? . 
i do realize that the bush administration is n't too happy with how they 're handling their internal strife as far as diplomacy is concerned . 
i think it 's been a good positive direction for the soviets as far as yeltsin is concerned . 
politically speaking he 's going to have more power , 
and i think it 's a step in the right direction . 
i think gorbachev realizes that he 's got a major power figure competing against him , 
he does realize it with the fact that they , increased the prices on their food and goods . 
that 's incredible 
but they had to go in the direction of a market driven economy , 
and they had to bite the bullet for that . 
so that 's a good move , on gorbachev 's part in doing that . 
but gorbachev has still not fully convinced everyone that , he 's moving towards a two to three party system of government nor eliminating or diminishing the communist power , 
and i guess that 's where yeltsin steps in , so far as his politics of government goes , 
but i do n't know how convinced the people are of him yet , myself . 
that 's all they got right now . 
that 's their ray of hope . 
so they 'll go with whoever comes through for them . 
it 's just that , the weird thing is , is that gorbachev is the one that opened the floodgates , as far as with glasnost and perestroika and stuff , 
and i think he 's got between the old guard , and the new glasnost . 
i think it 's kind of escalated to a point where it 's out of control . 
and i think he had to pull in the reins the only way he knew how , in order to keep the peace on both sides . 
so i think that 's , kind of where he 's stuck . 
you know what i 'm saying ? 
i understand . 
and that 's the situation that he finds himself in , 
and he 's a tough guy , 
he 's been through it . 
i think overall he 's been a , good figure for the soviet union . 
i think his intentions and his ideals are well intentioned . 
i think that makes the problem most severe , and makes him look worse that , what his ideals are , personally . 
i agree . 
what 's bad for the soviet system is that , they have the resources to grow and produce their food , but somehow it just does not get out to the market the way it should . 
i think it 's a lot of bureaucracy and , one thing , and then all the corruption . 
i think there 's a large amount of corruption on the have and the have-nots , 
that 's probably more true than , a lot of people realize . 
i know you 're going to have that with every society . 
at least we 're more blatant about it , 
but it 's very secret , 
and it 's been going on for years . 
you ca n't change things overnight . 
but if it gets to a point where people ca n't , survive there 's revolution , 
it seems to be headed in that direction too . 
big time , 
major , 
but that 's what happens when the cork blows and you ca n't handle it anymore . 
that 's the way the world revolves that way . 
. their knowledge , with better communication processes in this world now that 's reached them is more educated to the ways of the western world , 
i really question , though , how much technology the average soviet is exposed to . 
and i think that was a big stepping stone for them to initiate all their righteous ways of changing things , too . 
probably not enough , 
but i 'm sure i lot of it 's filtered down enough to the common folks that they have gotten wind , of what they 're missing out on . 
i think they 're starting to realize , 
but i just do n't think they have the resources , if you were to compare the americans to the soviets as far as home computers are concerned or fax machines and cellular phones , and state of the art equipment that we are so used to . 
i 'm sure a lot of them are missing those household items . 
the major conveniences of life . 
what we consider just , , normal everyday things to them is real luxury . which is unfortunate for them , 
and of course , most of us , we do n't really appreciate what we 've got because we 've been so used to it . 
this is true . 
this is very true . 
it 's human nature though to take things for granted 
when you 've lost something or do n't have what other people have that 's when you tend to realize what 's out there and what you have and what you do n't have . 
i agree . 
so the original question , 
do we think they 're a security threat ? 
i can go with that answer too . 
the only yes i could go to is if a renegade crew decides to launch an attack or an accidental launching or something to that effect to a nuclear exchange , 
but i do n't even see that occurring . because their internal strifes are more important right now than concentrating on any kind of outside affairs that they used to be adapted to . 
i do n't really feel that the soviets really want to blow up the world . 
we painted them back in the fifties and sixties as nonfeeling machine type people , 
and they 're people just like us . 
they get up everyday , 
and they put their pants on the same way , 
and they have to eat and everything else , 
i wondered if i was going to get to talk to a male or a female on this type . 
have you been talking to males ? 
this is probably more interesting if it had been a male and a female . 
i was afraid we might get into an argument . 
i guess there have been certainly a lot of changes in the last couple of generations , for the roles of women 
and i guess the most significant probably is that so many are working now , and trying to juggle job and home and family and all sorts of other possibilities , 
they may be going to school , or may have elderly parents , or all sorts of other things . 
it seems too me though that women 's roles are changing faster than the men and therefore , the women are spreading themselves thinner , than before . 
i think so . 
i think it 's extremely difficult to keep up with all that we have to these days . 
sometimes , i think i am going crazy trying to do it 
do you work outside the home ? 
do you have children ? 
they are getting older now , 
so they are not quite as much of a responsibility 
but they are still there , 
they still take time , 
and i still provide most of the things that go on around the house . 
and for a while i was going to school too , 
and it was tough . 
i think sometimes other things suffer 
i think it 's hard to find a balance there . 
but in some ways i think we are expected to do it all . 
you 're almost looked down upon if you do n't try to do all of these things 
and that 's where the problem is really . 
i have little children , four and one , 
and i decided that it was very important to me to stay home . 
i 'm very active with other people with children my age 
and most of us do tend to stay home , 
but when i run into people that just have recently had babies or have very young children and are working full time , there 's almost a friction between us . 
not people that are necessarily good friends , even though that has happened too 
it 's almost as though it puts you on different sides of a fence . 
if you decide to go back to work then you feel like you are always having to defend yourself . 
and if you do n't then , sometimes you feel like you 're looked down upon by people that go back to work and so you 're just wasting your time , at home . 
it 's a tough one . 
i 've done some of both . 
when my kids were real little , i was at home for a couple of different periods of time . 
i think the longest was less than a year , 
but still at least i was able to spend those first months with them . 
but i mostly went back to work because i was tired of doing without things . 
the money was the issue . 
but even now , i would like to not have to work in some ways . 
it 's kind of pull and tug , 
on the other hand , i ca n't imagine just being at home although i have a lot of interests and a lot of things i would like to pursue . 
still there 's sort of a feeling of accomplishment with having a job and all that goes with that . 
that 's definitely true . 
in fact , i work out of my home . 
i 'm an accountant , 
and i do taxes and bookkeeping 
it 's a way for me to stay home . 
and i still , unfortunately have to be very disciplined in doing my work at five in the morning and ten o'clock at night , 
but it 's worked out for my family , 
to have my cake and eat it too , kind of thing . 
that 's a good deal . 
where do you think this is going in the future , 
do you think things are going to change , 
or are we going to keep having to try to juggle all of this ? 
i hope that they will change , 
i know it 's going to be a slow change . 
i feel as though a lot of people are going back to just having a one wage earner . 
i 'm just thinking of my circle of people that i know . 
i know quite a few people who have decided to not have both , of the parents work . 
i hope to see employer based helping out child care centers at the place of employment and things like that , that will help out . 
what do you think , 
do you think we are , setting a trend ? 
i see some people wanting to stay home more and take care of the children . 
and even those who may not do it seem to be spending more time with their kids and really trying harder at making all of the family things work . 
but i do n't know if they 're going to ever give up their careers . 
it 's sort of like they went to school and they worked so hard to get where they are , 
i do n't know if they want to completely give that up . 
it 's a very personal thing . 
but , it would be nice if there could be an in-between , a middle ground somewhere . 
i think it 's hard though when you talk about families and raising children 
because i think children have a hard time understanding a middle ground . 
i think they need security 
i do n't know , 
speaking from my children , they are n't real flexible when it comes to things like that . 
they want to know things are going to be a certain way . 
i think they like a routine of sorts . 
we will see . 
i 'm hoping to see more female leadership in our society . 
i like the fact that gradually you 're beginning to see women in public office and executive positions , 
but it 's still a long way from being what it ought to be . 
the numbers are still very skewed to say the least . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
you too ellen . 
i have a lot of different teams that i like to keep in touch with , 
of course , texas rangers being one of them , 
what are the others ? 
i originally came from saint louis , 
so the saint louis cardinals are one , 
i moved to kansas city , 
i have a tendency to , adopt teams when i go to a town . 
it 's helpful . 
so i lived in kansas city for a couple years 
and i adopted the royals , 
i lived in houston for two and a half years 
so i adopted the houston astros , 
so i 've got quite a few . 
do you keep up with the statistical stuff ? 
i do n't get into that too much , 
every once in a while , i will keep in touch , with maybe who 's in the top five of hitting , or something like that 
but i do n't get into how many errors somebody has or things like that . 
there 's a guy that was on show that i listen to going to work in the morning who does , 
it 's essentially trivial statistics 
it 's a statistic that has to do with winning and losing one run games . 
i 've heard of that one . 
and apparently the rangers last year , won a lot of one run games . 
i did n't know that , 
that 's supposed to be a real good statistic . 
it is 
but it 's a reverse indicator . 
that 's true , 
they do n't have the offense to get out , or to have the more runs , 
how can you draw a conclusion from it , 
but they find that , there 's a connection between that and how they do in spring training the following year . 
and strangely enough , it 's almost like the law of averages catches you on the following year . 
which means that if you have a good year winning one run games that the following year , you 'll have a bad year . 
and they 've looked at twenty-three teams , 
and , the statistics are something like twenty-one out of twenty-three . 
which means the rangers are going to have a terrible year , 
which i was kind of leaning toward anyway , to tell you the truth . 
i do n't know , 
what do you think of incaviglia 's loss . 
i kind of think it was necessary , 
i 'm not a big pure power hitter anyway . 
i do n't like these guys that get up there and swing for the downs every time . 
i think that a player ought to hit a home run if he 's got the pitch to do it , 
but when you get two strikes on you , you should shorten your swing a little bit , 
if it 's a perfect shot , go for it , 
but the strike outs were a big problem for him , 
plus supposedly what i heard , he was not much of a team player anyway , 
i was reading in the paper tonight that the detroit tigers are going to sign him . 
i do n't understand the strategy of how baseball works , 
but it seems that they can sign him tomorrow , 
and he could go in the team the next day , 
and , and they put him in the lineup 
and he hits a home run 
and all of a sudden he becomes a hero . 
that 's true . 
and all he has to do is hit the ball , 
and all he has to do is hit it once . 
he can swing a couple times 
if he fouls it up he can swing as much as he can . 
it 's an interesting concept of how they do it . 
but i agree with you 
i think that 's part of what baseball needs more of . 
i guess what bothers me is that when you go you wait and wait and wait 
and finally a guy gets up there and blasts a home run 
and that 's all the game is . 
there 's another point to that too . 
they said that he was horrible at batting with men on base . 
having somebody get up and hit a solo home run gives you run , obviously . 
but if you ca n't do it with men on base , there 's something definitely wrong , 
you 've got to be able to get the two and three run home runs to be able to score enough runs to be able to win in this day and age , 
how do you think the royals are going to do ? 
i think the royals will do okay . 
they have several pitchers that had badly years last year 
and they 're these cycle pitchers , 
they pitch one year bad , one year good , one beer bad , one year good . 
saberhagen has won supposedly the cy , 
i think he won cy two out of three years , 
so he 's very much due for a good year . 
are they going to beat oakland ? 
that 's a good question , 
i do n't know how oakland 's going to react to being swept in the world series last year . 
they could very easily take that as a challenge . which is the way most teams naturally do . and , just go out and not give anybody a chance to beat them , 
i go to saint louis from time to time 
and i watch their sports up there 
and they 're certainly intense about the cardinals 
baseball is their life up there like football is down here i think . 
did you actually live in saint louis ? 
i lived in the suburbs of saint louis , 
everybody does . 
that 's true too , . 
i think that 's all that they have . 
it 's on the west side , 
everything 's on the west side . 
manchester ? 
out that way , 
and i went and visited him , 
but it is interesting . 
how are the cardinals ? 
i definitely do , 
in fact i 've got family that still lives up there . 
from what i hear from everybody up there , they 're not going to have a good year because they let too many people go . 
but i 've been following spring training 
and they 're one of the best teams in spring training so far . 
is that a good indicator ? 
it can be . 
it really kind of depends on , what they were looking for . 
in other words , if in spring training they were looking at all their kids , like a lot of them do then it really does n't give you any indication . 
but if they were playing the people that they 're going to play , then that might be pretty good indication , 
so it 's not a great indication because there have been teams that have just come out and just won all kinds of games in spring training and then gone on a fourteen game losing streak in the first of the season 
it seems that what you really need to do to win though , is to have a team that has reasonable talent and has some people that have real breakthrough years . 
and the question is how do you forecast that , 
you ca n't . 
if you had to bet on who would be in the world series it would be really tough . 
i think the best thing that you can do is go with the players that have the talent to do the best years . and that they had n't had these gigantic career years yet and just kind of assume that one of them is going to break through eventually , 
this last year , i 'm not sure that they said that they had that many people having career years . 
and so they may be even better this year . 
that 's a good question . 
the rangers have a pitching problem 
and whether or not they can fix that or not is going to be an interesting question . 
they 're doing the right thing , though , 
they are going with their farm system . 
they 're letting their farm system build up and stuff like that 
is there enough money , 
that 's part of it , 
that was part of skip bayless ' argument . 
i do n't know if you read skip bayless , a local commentary 
and , his argument is that the ownership is not inclined to lose big money long enough to bring in the big dollars . 
that 's probably true . 
would you agree with that ? 
considering what i 've seen in the last two seasons , i 'm beginning to agree with that , 
but you do n't have to spend the big money , as far as i 'm concerned to win . 
you just have to spend it if it 's necessary . 
in other words if you 've got a player on your team who 's helping your team , then keep him there . 
do n't let him go away . 
and i think that 's really what 's been hurting the rangers . 
did n't kansas city put up quite a bit of money for their pitching staff . 
they spent more money , last year than any other team in the league 
and they were toward the bottom of the league . 
so it 's like i said 
spending money does n't guarantee you winning a pennant . 
it really does n't , 
if i owned the team . i think you 'd like them to do well 
you got me . 
i think that there 's coming to a point real soon when ticket prices are going to be to the point where the average fan ca n't go 
and once you do that , you lose everything , 
it 's a little bit like any other sport . 
when it starts costing you fifty or a hundred dollars to go to a game 
say you go to a rock concert , or even a performance , an opera or the symphony or something , 
but how often do you do that . 
that 's the whole point . 
there are so many games in a year that they 've got to have repeat customers . 
they ca n't afford not to , 
and that 's one of the things that i think saint louis has done , 
their ticket prices are as high as anybody else 's 
it 's a small market 
and yet they attract as many if not more than most , other cities , 
but do n't you think there are older fans there . 
i do n't mean older , 
we 're going to talk about the public school system , what 's wrong with it , or if anything is wrong with it and what we can do about it , what should be done about it . 
fantastic . 
one thing that pops into my mind real quick is about the funding of , the school system right now . 
evidently that 's a big problem . 
it 's amazing , 
i always thought that teachers never got paid nearly enough to be doing what they 're doing . 
when i was in college i enjoyed teaching , 
'cause i did some teaching part-time 
and i really enjoyed that 
but i would n't want to go teach high school or junior high , 
all the problems . 
an , you talk about stress and pressure , 
i tell you what , 
they 're putting in fifty , sixty hours a week , because they 've got to grade papers and get class stuff ready . 
and they 're being paid , probably half what most people being paid . 
and we 're paying basketball people millions of dollars a year for what . 
that 's right , 
and then they poof it off do like tarpley . 
what gets me is i ca n't believe that , our state legislature ca n't come up with some kind of workable means to have funds for the school . 
i just do n't understand that . 
do you have little kids , or what ? 
sure do n't , 
my wife and i 've just been married about two years 
but i have a sister that 's a school teacher , 
my wife and i have a three year old , almost four and a two year old . 
so we 're looking at the older one going to school next year . not this coming fall but the year after that . 
so it 's getting close . 
he 's going to be going to kindergarten , 
so we 're thinking about that . 
what 's that going to be like . 
are they going to be taught nothing , 
or they going , 
we 're going to be involved in our child 's education . 
we 're going to be teaching him what we can at home , of course , because i guess we do n't trust the school system , which is very sad , 
but if it does n't start at home , it 's not going to go anywhere . 
that 's true . 
not if you can read or write , or understand some science . 
give me a break , 
that 's bogus . 
and one thing my wife and i 've talked about , are , private schools . 
whether we would want to invest in private schools as they 're growing up , because just in the dallas area we 're not real comfortable with the public schools . 
and dallas school district just recently got an advised status because of their low quality schooling . 
i could n't believe that . 
that 's one reason we bought a house here in plano . 
we were hoping the school district 's going to be good for resale value , and , so on and so forth , 
but i can definitely see on down the road where we do have kids and are getting to that age , that 's going to be a definite concern . 
you talked before , about the school funding . 
i think there 's only going to be one solution to school funding which i do n't think will be necessarily the best way 
but i think what 's going to have to happen is there 's going to have to be tuition for grade school and junior high and high school kids . 
that 's the only way they 're going to fund it , because if they start raising taxes for property , people are going to throw a fit . 
taxes right now are political suicide . 
and i do n't think any politician 's going to do that , 
and the only thing , they would think of would be tuition , 
if it works at colleges it will work down below . 
and that 's going to affect the people that are having kids in school , of course , which is probably the only fair thing to do . 
but , it will be hard for people , that have in school because they have to pay out even more . 
and it 's going to really hurt the middle class people because they 're the ones that will probably have to carry the brunt of the load . 
that 's right . 
that 's just unbelievable to me . 
i ca n't believe that . 
when i was in junior high and high school that never happened . 
you never heard about that . 
we did n't even think about it . 
and now what do we have now . 
got kids that , 
i 'd be afraid to be in school , teaching , or even being a student 
and think what 's it going to be like for my oldest son , when he goes to school . 
what 's going to happen ? 
i 'm afraid for him to go . 
but there again , you ca n't hold them back . 
and you want to encourage them to be active and everything in school , 
but with all the peer pressure that 's going on , with all the negative things it 's a tough environment to be growing up in . 
and lot tougher than it was when i was going to school , 
i graduated high school in nineteen seventy-nine , 
so . that was twelve years ago , i guess . 
so it 's lot different now . 
and what 's it going to be like in another twelve years when my oldest son is in high school . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
i 'm afraid to even think about it . 
that is a scary thought , 
but i do n't know , 
i guess what you have to do is just keep encouraging them and , try to be open with them , so that you can deal with the problems as they come up . 
that 's all you can do . 
you got to be your child 's best friend even when they 're a teenager and they are kind of standoffish , 
still you got to be their best friend because when they 've got problems , who they going to go to , 
their friends that are dealing drugs , or your parents . 
and if they go to their friends dealing drugs , they 're going to be in even worse shape . 
that 's right . 
and the schools do n't really encourage to stay away from that , 
the schools are there to teach history and that we fought the civil war , etcetera , etcetera . 
they do n't teach them good values like drugs are bad . 
maybe i 'm wrong , because i have n't been in that kind of environment for a long time , 
but , it just is amazing , 
need to teach them good values . 
that 's true , 
that 's true , 
of course , if i say this is a good value , someone else is going to stand up and say , . 
and the a c l u is going to get after them and have a lawsuit . which is going to take twenty years to resolve . 
and i think you touched on it , 
you 've got to start them at the home . 
that 's where they get the deep rooted values 
and that 's about right . 
that 's all you can do . 
then you just have to hope and pray that everything works out okay , 
that 's right . 
i got to be going , 
i appreciate the call . 
nice talking to you today . 
you to . 
have a good life . 
do you own a p c ? 
i do n't , 
so i can work at home . 
and it 's just an old compact , that is super slow 
but it does its job , 
what processor does it have in it ? 
i do n't know , 
it 's so old . 
what kind of work do you do on it ? 
i do television ratings 
and i process some ratings and do graphics for their television stations their clients , 
it 's basically just data entry and running some software 
so it does n't really have to be anything sophisticated . 
i do n't own a p c 
but i work for t i 
my husband does , too , 
i have , a fairly fancy one , 
it 's a t i model . 
it has a fast processor in it , a three eighty-six . 
the job that i do , i do a lot of training of our customers for new products . 
and i have to develop functional specs and desk top publishing and everything , 
so it 's kind of fun , 
i always say that i need to buy a computer for the house 
but i just have n't got around to doing it yet . 
i 'd like to have one for the house , too , 
but sometimes my husband says usually , i work on the computer all day at work , 
i do n't want to come home and have to work on one , too . 
your husband , what group is your husband in ? 
something with the defense . 
defense systems and electronics group ? 
something like that , 
they 've changed their name so many times i 've lost track , 
i see . 
he works up in plano . 
i work on printers and , the peripheral products division , basically , 
i work in the airline , marketing group . 
i did n't even know they had anything like that . 
i learned so many things that they do , 
they 're into so many different things , 
he had , one of those top secret things where he could n't talk about what he did , 
for a while 
but then he switched jobs . 
i do n't understand half the stuff he does 
is he a programmer ? 
i see . 
software design engineer , as they call it , 
but i have a degree in information management , which is computer , 
it 's basically , more the business end of it than the programming end of it . 
but i 've been at it for five years , 
so . everything 's changed so much i probably could n't even get a job right now . 
it seems like it 's changed so much , 
so they 've made such advances in computers , 
so does your husband ever use a laptop or a notebook ? 
does he bring a little one home with him 
sometimes he brought home a portable one , 
but it quit working 
so he , brought it back 
and he just has n't brought another one home . 
but they did give him a new computer at work , 
i see . 
we build laptop and notebook computers here in temple also . 
and those are really handy , 
they have modems in them , 
you can send a fax from your p c , 
how nice , 
he does n't have one of those , 
what 's that ? 
he does n't have one of those . 
they 're pretty handy because when i travel , it 's easy to check messages , 
just plug in the phone to your computer and dial in 
my husband does n't have to travel , 
i just found out i 'm going to denver sunday night again . 
so that kind of reeks havoc with plans , 
but , it 's really not enough to become a big hassle . 
that 's good . 
some people enjoy the travel 
but i do n't think i 'd like it , if he traveled a lot . 
i see . 
i would love to have a computer , 
but they 're so expensive . 
i do n't know , 
depends on what you consider expensive , 
you can get real high powered stuff now for under two thousand dollars , where just a few years ago it would have been six , seven , eight , nine thousand dollars . 
, i guess it 's , inexpensive compared to what it used to be 
but it 's a lot to put into one . 
two thousand dollars is n't just pocket change to a lot of people . 
that 's right . 
it 's not . 
it 's not pocket change , 
so it 's major . 
when they start needing something then that will be different 
when i started at t i , i was a summer development student , and finishing up at school 
i remember that . 
i had to do some of my husband 's papers because i had access to one 
but his was more for scientific stuff than for word processing , 
i did a lot of his papers . 
they come in real handy , 
that was a lifesaver . 
how many different types of packages do you use ? 
at home ? 
the packages i do n't really use , 
most of it 's just stuff that 's been written in house that i use . 
up at work anyway , i use wordperfect and lotus and which is a line-draw package . 
i know those two . 
i 've just used wordperfect and lotus the most . 
you probably use or something like that , for your data entry stuff that you 're , talking about . 
a lot of the data entry stuff they used , uh , survey system and , just in-house programs to do what they needed . 
i worked for this company before i had my first daughter , 
and they just wanted me to continue working for them at home doing other things , 
that worked out pretty good then . 
it did . 
i really do n't do a lot of what i used to do , 
i just do something really minor 
but , it 's something that nobody else wants to do , 
and it 's time consuming . 
so , it keeps you in the company ? 
that 's right , 
it gives me a paycheck , 
the work . goes for three to four weeks three times a year , 
it 's not something that 's continual because the television ratings do n't come out all the time . 
they only come out four times a year , 
i tell you if i could bring a computer home and do stuff here , i 'd get all kinds of stuff done . 
phone 's always ringing 
and , people always asking me to do something else . 
especially right now , we 've got several new products coming out , 
and i 've got lots of documentation i need to review and some i need to revise . 
will they let you take a computer home to work ? 
but i need to be at the office , too . 
i 've just got to deal , with all those other things that happen 
but , a p c at the house would really take a lot of the load off . 
i bet . 
and it was looking a little touchy to meet , 
i 've done that before , a couple times . 
but that would make it just that much easier 
instead of bringing home a computer , you just bring home a few floppy disks . 
that 's right . 
because it 's real nice with this because i do n't even have to go into the office 
i 've maybe been into the office once in the past three years . 
they just send me everything and pick it up courier or whatever , 
that sounds really nice . 
it is real nice , 
i just deal with them on the telephone , 
half the people do n't even know who they 're talking to . 
i know most of them , 
i ca n't say that , 
a lot of people changed around there 
but , most people know who i am , 
but i do n't know who they are . 
a lot of them just know me by name and phone voice . 
i 've got a lot of folks that i 've worked with like that as well . 
you just know them by the telephone , 
it 's been good talking to you , 
i think we 've got the subject . 
we sort of stayed to the topic anyway . 
we tried . 
it 's hard to sometimes . 
we 'll talk to you later . 
that made a nice ugly sound . 
your name is lynn ? 
linda . 
linda . 
sounds like you like to read . 
i read quite a bit , probably do n't read as much as i would like to . 
i do n't read as much as i would like to either . 
i 'm a single mom , 
but i have always loved reading . 
what do you like to read ? 
i 'm a therapist by trade , 
so most of my books are what you 'd call self improvement type of books . 
that . 
my interests switch around dramatically . 
i used to read just , mainly fiction , 
and now like a said , i 've read a lot of self help books . 
what kind of things have you read ? 
i read all kinds of things for helping people survive a divorce . 
the road less travelled was probably one of my favorites . 
have you read that ? 
i have n't gotten through it yet . 
you have n't ? 
what would you recommend ? 
as far as dealing with divorce ? 
i 'm kind of getting that one past me , 
but a good self help book . 
good self help . 
probably the best one that i know of and i work with all the time is called search for significance by robert mcgee 
that sounds good . 
and it 's one that we use in our work . 
it 's probably one you 'd find in a christian book store . 
i do n't know what the chains are down there . 
maybe in the mall family book store , something like that . 
i 'm writing it down . 
that sound really good . 
what kind of counseling do you do , 
or should we stay on the topic of books ? 
probably should stay on the topic , 
but that has a little bit to do with some of the things that i read . 
i 'm a therapist for rossa . 
it 's a christian treatment organization 
and because of that i work with adolescents specifically , 
so i see a lot of kids with various problems . 
right now some of the things i 'm working with are kids that are dealing with sexual abuse , 
so a lot of the books i 've been reading have to do with helping them get through those issues . 
i would imagine helping them feel good about themselves 
they 're at a bad stage anyway , 
and then to have to deal with sexual abuse would be terrible , as a teen . 
that must be a wonderful feeling to be in that profession and be able to make a contribution like that . 
sometimes it 's rewarding , 
and sometimes it 's a struggle . 
i 'm sure , 
i 'm sure . 
is that just the only type of reading you 've been doing , 
or have you read any good novels lately ? 
i guess i 've got so many books like that that i need to read 
it 's hard for me to do a lot of reading just for enjoyment . 
just joy reading . 
i hear you there , 
that 's for sure . 
in fact , 
my oldest daughter had to read lost horizons for her english class , 
and i just realized i had never read it growing up . 
so , i just finished reading that for enjoyment . 
that 's neat . 
and it was good . 
she , did n't enjoy it much , 
so i did n't get much satisfaction trying to discuss it with her . 
but i thought it was real interesting . 
i 've always wanted to go back and read some of my literature texts from college because i enjoyed some of those stories so much , 
but i never seem to have the time to do that kind of reading . 
i know . 
i trying to think of some of my other favorite books , 
but , i keep lists , 
i must have a list of two hundred , three hundred books that i want to read . 
just i want to read that 
and i write it down . 
i 've got a stack next to my bed . 
so do i . 
i tend to get a little bit of ways in a book 
and then i get distracted , , or have to start on another one , 
it 's pretty tough to keep up with . 
i 've got a copy of the road less travelled 
but i was trying to think , 
there 's another scott book that i 've got that i had read . 
he also wrote people of the lie . 
that 's the one i was thinking of . 
i bought that one , 
and i did n't get involved in that one as well . 
there 's another one he wrote that even sounds better , 
and it 's kind of the whole concept of global peace and building communities . 
someone just recently said something really neat about that . 
i got involved in beginning experience weekends , 
and it was that said that . 
his latest book is just excellent , 
and his whole idea is , we can build a better world if people get involved in good community building projects . 
and he did mention beginning experience weekends as one of the places . 
that 's interesting . 
it really was . 
i ca n't think of his name . 
pardon me 
it 'll come to me , 
but he wrote the illusion , and a bridge to forever . 
those are mind expanding books . 
his concepts are so different than what i would have ever dreamed of . 
i ca n't think of what his name is right off the bat , though . 
but they were fun . 
they were real just books for fun . 
have you been involved on the switchboard long ? 
not very long . 
i really just started . 
how did you get involved ? 
my wife has been working for t i . 
i see . 
i 'm a former t i-er . 
i just recently quit . 
and so i got myself involved in a sales job , 
and right now , my list of books to be read have to do with the art of selling . 
, i was just thinking , 
at rossa they tend to come out with a new book every couple of weeks just to help us deal with all the things that we have to deal with . 
so , i keep getting stacks of books i need to read , 
and , i do n't know when i 'm going to get to them all . 
never , 
never 
there 's never going to be enough hours in the day . 
i do n't think so . 
even if you took speed reading . . 
i do n't think so . 
do you like to read mysteries . 
a little bit . 
do you like ken ? 
. trying to think . 
he writes spy novels , the eye of the needle 
and i really have found his books enjoyable . 
i like that kind of stuff . 
i think the last novel i read i read , in conjunction with my wife over vacation last year . 
it 's called this present darkness . 
it 's kind of unusual book . 
it 's a lot about spiritual warfare and some things like that . 
that sounds interesting . 
it sounds really good . 
you should make yourself a promise that you 'll read one novel in the next six months , just for you . 
it 's so easy to get caught up on reading just for your work , or self improvement , 
and you kind of forget the fun of reading . 
that 's true . 
very easily . 
i guess we 've covered the topic pretty thoroughly . 
i think so , too . 
and i thank you for calling . 
nice talking to you , linda . 
and i 'll have to check out that book you , told me about . 
hope you like it . 
thank you . 
you take care . 
you , too . 
what kind of hobbies do you have ? 
i do some crafts like it mentioned in the thing , 
and then i read a lot . 
i like to read , too . 
i was trying to think of some while it was talking about it , 
it took so long for someone to answer , 
i started reading the newspaper , and kind of forgot about it . 
but 
i would love to do crafts and stuff if i just had the time to do it or if i had the space . 
i live in a pretty small apartment , 
and i would have to put stuff away . 
i have two cats , 
so i could n't really leave it out if i was working on something . 
reading is a little bit easier to work around . 
you can pick it up and take it wherever you go . 
that 's right . 
i get too involved in reading sometimes that i neglect what i should be doing . 
that 's true , 
i do the same thing . 
you get so involved in what you 're reading . 
what types of crafts do you do ? 
i do a little bit of woodworking , 
i do n't have the equipment here . 
we moved to dallas about a year ago 
and my dad had a lot of woodworking equipment 
and i did some of that . 
what else have i done ? 
things to hang on the wall . 
mostly just stuff that i can use right around the house or give away as gifts . 
i 've been making a lot of quilts not a lot , but several quilts lately . 
i enjoy sewing and needlework also . 
i 've , made some small things , cross stitch things . 
and back when i was in high school , i worked at a needlework shop , 
and i used to do the latch hook rugs and needlepoint and things like that , 
and i still remember how to do it . 
it 's just been so long since i 've actually sat down and taken the time to do something like that . 
but i have recently done some cross stitch . 
and i enjoy doing that . 
it 's just the same old thing , 
it 's just getting the time to do it . 
i 've done some cross stitch , 
but i never count right , 
and i always have to either take it out or have my picture slightly off centered or something . 
it never has worked out completely . 
it takes a lot of concentration . 
i was making some little things for christmas , 
and i also made a little thing for a baby gift , 
and i thought , i can do this while i watch t v . 
you must pay all attention to what you 're doing . 
it is a lot more difficult than it seems like it would be . 
it took me quite a bit of time . 
i though , this wo n't take long at all . 
but i was wrong . 
it took a while to do . 
but , it was fun , 
i enjoyed it . 
the first project i started out one was a big one , 
it was of a lady 
and she was kneeling , 
and it was about fifteen by twenty maybe . 
it was just too much to start with . 
and i still have n't finished it , because i stopped , 
and i thought i better do some simple things and work up to this because it was just so difficult to get it done . 
and there were so many different shadings and colors , 
and , it was just too much to begin with . and kind of discouraged me from doing much more with it . 
that 's pretty understandable . 
and i 've done some of the crewel and something similar to that 
but it does n't have the specific stitches . 
it 's a little bit more loose , and not quite as structured , 
and i like that a little bit better the variety of stitches and stuff in that . 
more like embroidery or something . 
i 'm trying to think of anything else i do as a hobby . 
i do n't even watch t v very much . 
i was tonight , 
i was reading when you called . 
how about movies , 
do you like to go to movies ? 
i do , 
i do like to go to movies , 
and i have a v c r , 
so i like to rent movies , 
and right now i have the movie channel , 
so i 've recorded quite a few movies off of that . 
just , i 've kind of got a collection going of tapes now , 
and whenever i go visit my parents , they 're always saying , bring some of your tapes . 
they always borrow a few of them . 
i was over there , 
they live in duncanville 
and i was over there at easter , 
and they said , bring some tapes with you . 
so they are always borrowing my tapes . 
i like to do stuff with plants . 
i have a lot of plants in my apartment , 
and i 've got a pretty small porch , 
in the winter time i usually plant some pansies in there , 
and then in the summer i 'll plant petunias , or something that 's colorful 
and that blooms a lot . 
but have n't done that yet . 
i kept thinking that it was going to get cold one more time , 
but i think we 're probably past that now . 
i probably should go buy some . 
i guess if i had a house i might enjoy gardening , some . 
i 'm not real crazy about pulling weeds and things like that . 
it 's the hard work . 
i like the planting , 
and watering is okay . 
it 's so nice though when you have a nice yard full of flowers , 
we live in an apartment also . 
i 've got a few plants here , 
but i 'm not really knowledgeable . 
i feel real good if i water them 
and they continue to grow . 
i feel like , i 've accomplished something . 
so i enjoy it , 
but i 'm just not experienced enough with it . 
i do n't know too much about it either . 
mine 's pretty limited to my little porch plants . 
and then the ones in my apartment , half of which do n't look real healthy , 
but i do n't always get direct sun except in certain spots . 
and so that 's probably my problem there . 
have you tried growing any , fruits and vegetables or anything ? 
i guess vegetables are in pots and stuff ? 
i never have tried that , just because i do n't have that much space on this little porch here in this apartment or this little balcony . 
they 're pretty big , 
and i have enough plants in them that it takes up a lot of my porch area , 
so between that and the chairs and the barbecue grill and the fireplace wood , there 's no room for much else . 
but my dad used to grow tomatoes and things at the house . 
and i think when i was real little i probably had a finger in on that every time he did it and had to be out there and watch and that type of stuff . 
but i 've never really tried anything like that since then . 
i considered it last year and this year both , 
but i have n't done anything about it . 
so . i think it would be nice to just go out and pick some tomatoes off the porch . 
we get lots of sunlight here , 
and the porch is screened in 
and it 's pretty large . 
so i think if i 'd do something , be motivated enough to do something it would work out well . 
but there goes that motivation thing again . 
i enjoy playing with my cats . 
i do n't know if you 'd call that a hobby , 
but i have two cats , 
and i gave them a bath tonight , 
so they 're a little bit angry at me . 
can you put them right in the water ? 
they did n't like it too much . 
that 's good , 
right in the tub , 
and it helps because it 's the time of the year that they 're shedding a lot , and cleaning cat fur off the couch and off the floor is not a hobby of mine . 
so i thought , this 'll help them shed , 
and sure enough the fur just came off like crazy once i got them in the tub . 
so , they 're pretty content now , 
but they were mad at me for quite a while . 
they went and hid after they got dried off . 
sulked for a while , 
i like animals , 
but we do n't have any yet . 
we have a nine month old with another on the way 
or get into a house with a little more space . 
i 'd love to have some animals . 
but i like dogs 
and my husband likes cats . 
so we have n't reached a real agreement on that yet . 
if we get a place where we can have both , it 'll be great , 
i like both , 
but since i 'm in an apartment , i do n't think an apartment is big enough for a dog . 
to me , dogs need a yard , even little dogs . 
they just need a yard . 
cats can deal with being inside all the time just fine . 
but i just think dogs need to be outside , though . 
i agree with you . 
if we were going to get anything now it would definitely be a cat , or even a bird or a fish tank or something small 
that 's an idea 
that she can watch , but wo n't take too much care . 
because , even a cat , you never know when they might bite or scratch or something . 
they 're not as likely to as a dog might , i guess . 
but with little ones , i 'd be kind of scared , to get anything that has teeth or claws . 
they grab hold with both hands and then just jerk . 
and if i was a cat or dog , i 'd respond probably by biting or something . 
i do n't know . 
that 'd be my self defense . 
but i think we probably reached our time limit . 
probably 
and i 'm out of good ideas for a hobby anyway . 
it was good talking to you . 
thank you for calling . 
it still echoes . 
do you like to cook ? 
i love it . 
i do too . 
it 's kind of hard to find time sometimes 
do you work ? 
and have a family ? 
i do n't have a family , 
i usually work about fifty hours a week 
and , by the time i get home i 'm so tired it 's hard to cook a full meal . 
i expect so . 
for a dinner party , i think one of my favorite things is baked chicken and white wine . 
that 's really weird that you said that because for a dinner party , mine is a chicken in a marsala wine sauce , 
so . where did you get your recipe for it ? 
i guess mostly out of an international cookbook that i have . 
mine actually came from the texas instruments cafeteria . 
they have a t i plant in texas , in kingsport ? 
it 's in johnson city . 
and the cafeteria is real good about putting out recipes , 
once a month , they 'll put out a recipe of the month . 
and they put this one out 
and i tried it 
and it was really good . 
what is a marsala wine 
a sweeter wine ? 
a little bit sweeter . 
and it 's a red wine . 
and i 'm trying to think what else . 
i roll it in bread crumbs and parmesan cheese , 
and , then i rub the chicken with a little bit of oil , and pour the wine sauce over it the last twenty minutes , so that it gets just enough flavor . 
so it kind of browns 
and then you put wine over it . 
that sounds real good . 
and , it 's really easy too 
what do you use ? 
what do you serve with it ? 
what do you serve with it ? 
i like to serve a wild rice with it . 
that 's what i do too . 
this is really neat . 
we 're big broccoli fans . 
that 's what i 've got . 
i 've got steamed broccoli down on mine . 
i just do n't think you can go wrong with something like that . 
it 's great . 
i 've got a good dessert recipe . 
what ? 
do you like angel food cake ? 
i just break it up in a glass bowl , 
and i make a thickened blueberry sauce 
and i layer it with angel food cake and the blueberries and then that topping . 
what time should we be there ? . 
that sounds wonderful . 
it is , 
it 's great . 
i love desserts , 
i try to avoid making anything too fancy , that , we 'd like too much and eat too much . 
i know what you mean . 
we do n't eat desserts much any more . 
but i guess one that i really like , that i have n't made in awhile , it 's called a fruit pizza . 
and you take a sugar cookie recipe , and spread it out on a pizza pan . 
so you make it like a pizza crust , 
and then you bake that 
and then you take things like kiwi , and strawberries and bananas and whatever fresh fruit you want 
you use cream cheese and a little bit of orange juice 
and i ca n't remember what else is in it 
and you make kind of a glaze , 
and then you layer your fresh fruit on that . 
and pour that over it ? 
that sounds great . 
it is really good , 
and it 's real light 
it would be pretty . 
depending on the fruit you use it 's real colorful . 
especially with the kiwi and the strawberries . 
that would be pretty . 
but usually i just opt for brownies and vanilla ice cream . 
we 've been cooking a lot of , turkey breasts . because it 's low fat . 
it 's just so much better for you . 
and i 've been making a hot sandwich . 
i toast a piece of whole wheat bread , and then put the turkey on it and then slices of the low fat swiss cheese 
and then i make a little honey mustard dressing and put over it , and pop it in the microwave . 
that sounds great . 
it is delicious . 
i would n't mind serving that to anybody . 
and that 's something that just it does n't take a long time to fix , 
it 's really good , 
and it 's really good for you . 
it 's real quick . 
and we eat out a lot 
and there are sometimes you just do n't feel like eating out , 
and i wish i had something a little bit different , to just zap together . 
i mix it until it just tastes good to me . 
i was going to say , do you just mix it to taste ? 
and it 's real good . 
and it keeps in the refrigerator . 
how long , does it keep , 
it keeps a long time . 
and you would n't have to mix that much together even . 
it keeps a long time . 
i 'm sorry i keep coughing . 
i 've had a bad cold . 
and i put a little yogurt in it too . 
plain ? 
plain yogurt ? 
just plain yogurt . 
it gives it a little tang . 
i 'll bet that is really good . 
it makes a great sandwich . 
i 'm going to have to think of that . 
we 're getting company tonight , 
are you . 
and i have been debating what to cook because one of my guests is a vegetarian . 
that 's kind of hard . 
we might try to grill some flounder or salmon steaks . 
they 'll eat fish ? 
she 'll eat fish . 
when they come down i 'll grill those and brush on a little lemon butter sauce 
and it will have to be a rice dish lots of vegetables , to make up for the lack of meat . 
that sounds good . 
i had a recipe from that international cookbook two , that 's a great salad in summertime . 
do you garden or not ? 
we do n't , 
our next door neighbors do 
and a lot of times they 'll give us something . 
it 's just sliced tomatoes 
and i put it on a glass plate because it looks real pretty . 
sliced tomatoes and then green pepper strips , just over it , and some red onion slices , and just a little bit of basil , and then a little italian dressing over it . 
and everybody loves it 
and it 's so easy , 
and it 's delicious . 
that 's what i was just thinking , 
it does n't sound like it would be hard at all . 
it is n't . 
and you can put some cucumber slices on too . 
where did you get this cook book ? 
i got it at the checkbook store . 
and , it 's got all these beautiful pictures , in there that are inspiring . 
it 's going to say edited by charlotte turgeon , editor of , laroute , gastro lamink 
the creative cooking course . 
i might have to visit the state book store . 
i 'm trying to see who it 's published by , 
ottenheimer , 
i 've never heard of it . 
i have n't either . 
this edition is published by bonanza books . 
it 's a big book 
but it was not expensive . 
i guess you 've seen the three hundred sixty-five ways to cook chicken , and the three hundred sixty-five ways to cook pasta , 
i 've been wanting to get those because we eat a lot of chicken , 
we do too . 
and we do eat a lot of pasta . 
we just said the other night it would n't be too difficult to do without red meat . 
that 's right . 
i do n't think it would . 
we do n't have that much of it now . 
as long as we have plenty of vegetables , and lots of chicken . 
i stir fried some the other night though . 
some beef and broccoli strips , 
it was good , 
but it did n't have much beef in it . 
i 've got a wok that we do n't use near as often as we used to . 
we used to stir fry a lot , 
especially a lot of chicken and a lot of rice dishes . 
it just takes the time to cut everything up . 
but usually if i take a day off or on the weekend especially , i try to cook , real food . 
cook . 
and at least cook a couple of dishes ahead . 
so that we can have those to enjoy . 
one of my daughters sent me a colorado cook book , put out by the junior league of denver . 
have you ever seen any put out by junior leagues ? 
cause , we have some local ones . 
they are great . 
and we have a share alike column in the paper , where people write in and share recipes or write in and say i 'm looking for this recipe , 
and that 's where i get a lot of my recipes . 
they are usually good are n't they ? 
and i got a real good one from a doctor 's office one time . 
is that right , 
what was that ? . 
it 's a baked bean recipe . 
and , you mix baked beans and lima beans 
and let 's see , 
you buy the canned baked beans ? 
just mix the canned beans together , and brown sugar and molasses and bake them in catsup , 
and you just bake it . 
and it 's like a spicier baked bean dish . 
and , you can add hamburger if you want , to give it a little more body . 
that sounds good . 
so , i try to always keep my eyes open because a lot of time you can find really good recipes where you would n't even think about it . 
so , i try to always keep a little notebook in my purse . 
jot them down ? 
what basketball teams are you interested in ? 
i guess i 'm a big l a laker fan , when it comes to pros . 
of course i try to follow my alma mater , 
that 's b y u , in utah . 
but they do n't have much of a team usually . 
they 're more of a football team than they are basketball team . 
you see them in football on t v once in awhile . 
you never see them on nationally basketball . 
that 's true . 
i do n't think i 've ever seen them nationally on basketball . 
last year they had a really good team , 
the year that danny aines was there . 
that was about five , six years ago by now . 
so , they made it to the sweet sixteen , once or twice , in their history , 
that 's not too bad . 
and they usually lose in the first round . 
how about you ? 
i 'm originally from the saint louis area , 
so the only basketball team in that part of the country is chicago . 
so , i do pull for chicago . 
of course , this year is a good year to be a chicago fan because they 're doing pretty good . 
is it the bulls you 're talking about ? 
as far as college teams i know it 's really easy to say , 
but i 've been pulling for duke for about four years now 
is that right ? 
again being from saint louis , i pull for missouri . 
but they 're on probation this year 
so you ca n't do much about that . 
did you watch the final four this year ? 
i watched all three games of that . 
every game ? 
i was pulling for kansas on the other side , 
so it was real nice to have the teams that were there . 
u n l v kind of gave me the impression of being a macho team , 
they seemed to think they were better than everybody else 
and maybe they were , 
but i was real happy to see them get knocked off . 
i watched that game . 
and it was a good game . 
it was a very close game , and hard fought game . 
i do n't know , 
it looked like u n l v may have had more talent , 
but , as far as playing together as a team that day , duke seemed to have them off balance . 
are n't they more of a running gun team ? 
u n l v , 
they play the pro style , is , what i 've always called it . 
they shut all that down and made them play half court it seemed 
and u n l v was n't used to that . 
i do n't know if they were necessarily behind , 
but they were n't ahead as much as they normally are . 
and that meant that they had to play a second half 
and they 've not had to do that all year 
they did n't have to go through some tough games during the year 
so that 's a terrible time to have to deal with that , when it counts so much . 
that 's right . 
duke 's schedule was so much harder than u n l v 's that it just made them a much tougher team overall , 
and that had to help them a lot . 
i think that probably was the difference in that game . 
because it really could have gone either way . down to the end . 
do i take it that you think though that the lakers will win 
i do n't know . 
probably not . 
portland 's pretty good . 
since kareem 's retired , they have n't had a center . 
and they 've got perkins , 
but i do n't think he 's really been a super star for them . 
he to me is not a center , 
he 's more of a real tall forward . 
they 'll make it , 
it 's going to be a war between chicago and , boston celtics . 
that 's going to be a war . 
that sure is . 
it 's going to be a great series . 
i think that 's going to be one of those that 's won by the home team , 
whoever has home court advantage is going to win that one i think . 
one of those two will probably be in there , 
let me see , 
where does detroit fit in ? 
detroit 's in that same , division . 
so , i do n't know , 
detroit has n't been having that great a year this year . 
but as i heard , isaiah came back this week . 
so that might help them . 
they have the play-off experience , 
, all three of them do , with larry bird back , 
you can never count the celtics out when larry bird 's , starting to click on all cylinders . 
that 's true . 
they say he 's starting to play , 
but he 's been kind of up and down all year . 
one game he 'll be playing to where everything he throws up goes in 
and then the next time he ca n't seem to hit the side of a barn . 
so , i do n't know , 
i 'm not sure about him this year . 
last i 've heard is that he 's starting to peak right now . 
that 's when , you do it . 
he 's , starting to be more consistent at the right time of the year . 
the dark horses , 
san antonio is the dark horse that could really flip in there , i think . 
anybody who has david robinson , has got to have a chance anyway . 
against any team he would dominate , 
that 's right . 
it looks like he 's going in for a dunk 
and they kind of just scoot out of his way or take a step back , 
nobody 's got enough beef to challenge him when he 's driving hard to the hoop . 
too bad the mavericks could n't get him . 
that 's true . 
with roy tarpley they 're in big trouble . 
then , he 's gone now 
so , they do n't have to worry about that . 
for awhile anyway . 
i thought he was gone period . 
i did n't read the story , 
that might have been what it was , 
but i guess the headlines said something about him that the mavericks released him or something , 
maybe i misunderstood what they meant . 
. if they did , they 'd still have to pay his contract . 
they may have done it . 
you never know . 
it was a lot of money . 
i heard on the radio it was sixty-three thousand and change a month . 
that 's what he was being paid , 
he was n't even playing . 
what a good job he had . 
that 's what i think . 
he ruined his sweet position . 
i 'm looking forward to the pro play-off , 
it 's coming up , is n't it . 
l a , 
san antonio , 
who 's the other one that 's doing so well this year , 
is that portland ? 
portland . 
portland . 
portland . 
i have n't seen them on much t v that much at all , 
they have the seeing eye . 
what do they have 
they 've got the two johnson brothers 
or they 're not brothers , 
but i mean there 's two guys named johnson on their team that are really good or doing good or something , 
i forget how that works . 
but like i said they 're doing extremely good right now . 
phoenix is n't doing too bad . 
so , it ought to be a real interesting play-off . 
i do n't think there 's any clear pick . 
i guess the two teams that you ca n't count out are the celtics because of bird , and the lakers because of magic johnson . 
when it 's on the line . 
when it 's on the line , they seem to find a way , 
so , those are what makes a champion i guess . 
that 's true . 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
nice talking to you . 
take care . 
take care . 
are you there ? 
there , 
had to mess with my phone here . 
do you have children ? 
i have one . 
how about you ? 
i have three . 
do you work ? 
i do . 
i do , 
i work 
and , brian 's in a day care center . 
he was two in december , 
so he 's not quite two and a half yet . 
i kind of had different ideas from what probably the majority of people have , 
i put him in a day care center from the very beginning . 
he started in day care when he was eight weeks old . 
i do n't know , 
i have kind of the opposite opinion of most people , 
i have had this real problem with a private individual . 
i kind of looked at it like if you take him to a home with private individual , when the door shuts , that one person has total control , 
and i always figured at least in a day care center there are other people around , 
and if you get one bad apple , there are at least other people that can see it . 
they can watch , 
and i just kind of always felt that the chances of something happening were less . 
how can you help depending on the day care center , 
you got to when you hear about all the horrible things that happen in day care centers , 
have you ever noticed they 're always a family owned center where the mother and the daughter and the son run it kind of thing . 
it 's a family thing . 
you never hear about it really in the big ones . 
so , that 's what i did 
and i have had just excellent luck . 
i have been just so happy . 
but obviously you do 
or you would n't have him there , i know , 
he was in the same center for the first two years , 
and it was wonderful , 
and i loved it , 
and i was so happy there 
and the woman who owned it sold it . 
but , i thought i 'm going to keep an open mind here , 
and the people who came in , it , just was n't the same 
was n't the same . 
and their attitude and philosophy was just completely , opposite from mine , 
and i left him there for about a month and just decided i ca n't do this anymore , 
and i , moved him , which was an extremely traumatic experience 
but , he 's done well , 
was it ? 
he 's been there , a couple of months now , 
and i just feel so lucky . 
that 's great , 
that 's good . 
how about you ? 
do you work 
or do you get to stay home with them ? 
i got to stay home with my kids for the first ten years . 
my oldest one is ten and a half now , 
was about ten years . 
so i was really happy that i was able to do that . 
that 's what i wanted to , because i just could n't wait to have kids 
and so , if , i was so anxious to have them and i could n't wait to have them it would be kind of silly to go back to work as soon as i had them , 
so , it was really great . 
by the end of the ten years i was really ready , to go back to work , 
i bet . 
and my youngest was only two and a half . 
she was already two and a half , 
so she was n't an infant . 
a baby . 
so , i felt real good about that , 
but i tell you with summer coming up i 'm just pulling my hair out , in terms of what i 'm going to do , 
i guess i , went back to work about a year and a half ago 
and i worked full time all last year 
and now i 'm going to school part time and graduate school , 
and i 'm working part time . 
i know how that goes . 
i 'm still going full time , 
but i only have half time salary , 
did you have them in a center or something last summer ? 
we did , 
we had all different things , 
we sent them to camp . 
one , 
first month , in june , they went to summer school , 
one , my daughter went home to visit my mom for a while 
and my son went to camp 
forget what else we did 
but it was all really expensive . 
that stuff is expensive . 
it really is . 
so they 're a year older , 
my daughter 's going to be eleven this summer 
and my son will be , nine and a half . 
i think i can leave them home , 
if i can work part of the day i 'm going to leave them home . 
i was going to say they 're getting to the age where , you should be able to trust that a little bit , 
in fact i 'm doing that right now with their afternoons , when they get home before i do , 
that 's okay . 
but , the four year old i have had her before i went back to work really , in a home day care situation , 
and we 've just been really thrilled , with it too . 
to find the right one , 
that 's what we have to do though . 
but , i was n't embarrassed to shop around , 
there 's an association here in town of professional home , care providers or something like that . 
where do you live ? 
in plano . 
plano ? 
and they have a number you can call 
care provider . 
care provider . 
she goes to seminars 
that 's wonderful . 
she gets home visitations by the state boards some of them and then some by the association , 
and they have weekly meetings and everything 
and , so it 's just really , really well regulated . 
that 's great . 
and , she 's just great . 
in fact she 's all upset because galen is going to go to kindergarten next fall 
and she says this is it , , 
i 'm not going to have her anymore 
and i said , do n't count on that . 
after noon classes she 's going to be here because she 's going to morning kindergarten . 
but , we 've tried everything 
my son was eight at the time , just barely eight , 
and we put him in amrein 's day care , 
i 've heard that , they were very good . 
that 's why we picked it , because they were supposed to be real great , 
and i think they were fine , 
but the thing is he was in school all day , in second grade , 
in plano , it 's open classroom situation where they do n't have walls , 
so there is a hundred and twenty second graders , in the same area with no walls . 
and then he 'd get on the amrein 's bus to go to amrein 's 
and then there would be a whole ton of other kids , all in the same room , 
you know what fun they had with these computer games 
and then they 'd go outside for awhile , 
they had snacks and story time and everything . 
but , it was just like going to school until five thirty at night instead of being able to get home at two thirty . 
poor kid was in school all day . 
because he was always around with a crowd of kids 
and he just really missed being able to be by himself , and having some peace and quiet 
even at that age they need that time , 
we all need that time , just some quiet time to wind down from the day . 
that 's exactly it . 
so , another thing that we tried to do , we tried to sign him up for after school scouts and , stuff like that 
i think that 's really important , 
how young can they start t-ball and soccer ? . 
we both think of that as just so important , to get him involved in stuff like that 
it is . 
and , you could hardly wait , 
it is . 
he 's so much fun now , 
he 's really starting to get lots of fun 
and i ca n't wait until stuff like that starts happening 
i bet , 
and we did the easter egg hunts , 
and to know what he was doing and enjoy it , 
and it was so much fun 
and he went a couple of weekends ago and rode an elephant 
and he got up on this elephant all by himself 
you 're kidding . 
and i could n't believe it . 
you 're kidding . 
they had so much fun . . 
that 's great . 
i bought us tickets and stood there in line 
and i thought , i 'm going to end up on this elephant with him , . 
he did it by himself , 
good for him . 
so stuff like that is starting to come along where it 's really , getting fun . 
day care has just done just incredible stuff with him 
and he comes home with something new everyday 
and so , i know they 're working with him 
that 's great . 
that 's so good . 
and he 's excited to get there in the morning , and just does n't even want to kiss me good-bye . 
it 's just bye , 
and he goes running , 
he 's out of there . 
and he 's always having fun when i pick him up 
so 
it 's bright steps in lewisville . 
whenever you say bright steps , everybody goes , i 've heard that 's the best day care in town , 
and it 's one of those that 's very hard to get into . 
and this woman owns three day cares , two in lewisville and one in irving . 
and she had to open the second one up in lewisville because , her waiting list was just a year old , 
it was ridiculous . 
and , she 's got two day cares within three blocks of each other . 
she knows what she 's doing , 
about half the teachers are degreed teachers . 
that makes such a difference . 
it makes a huge difference . 
that 's the way it is at my daughter 's nursery school too . 
and i think that really makes a difference . 
they 're in it because it 's a profession , not because it 's a job they could get because they did n't qualify for anything else . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
and the owner , i really liked her 
and she worked really hard to get good people , 
but the people that she got were there because they were n't qualified to do anything else . 
and i got lucky 
and all of his teachers were , very good . 
sometimes that 's fine , 
that 's great . 
sometimes it is n't . 
is it real expensive then ? 
it just went up the first of this month . 
i 'm paying seventy nine dollars a week for now . 
it 's a little high , 
but it 's like where he was before i was only paying sixty three , 
so there 's quite a little jump there , 
but , i looked all over lewisville , 
i looked in every day care there was in lewisville , 
and there were places that were cheaper , 
your peace of mind is worth a little bit of money , 
and i have peace of mind , where he is 
and some of those other places i would n't have . 
that 's exactly it . 
we do the same thing , 
since galen goes to nursery school , we pay for our day care provider , full time for a whole week , 
but she 's gone three mornings . 
galen just does n't go there three mornings a week . 
but , i said to her , 
when school holidays come around , i used to have such a problem with that . 
they would n't have anything to do . 
have you ever had a family reunion ? 
and let me tell you 
this is a really neat thing to do too , that they did , 
i did n't do it . 
some of the other people , the older people organized it . 
and , what they did , they had a book made up 
and it was when our ancestors first came over . 
and , then what they did was they asked every family to write something about their family . like , how many kids you had , and who you had married , 
and it went through , 
and it showed who my husband 's parents were and , who he married and then how many children we had and then his brothers and sisters 
and it went through the whole family and stuff . 
that 's so neat . 
and , it was so good . 
but it really did , , 
and plus it 's got a lot more people interested in it because , you got to participate sort of . 
so did everybody send in their information 
and they made a book up , about it , 
and then you could get it at the reunion . 
and , everybody got a book , that came to the reunion . 
and , it told where the first connallys came over , 
and it told what happened when they got there and how many kids they had 
and it just kept coming on up through the generations . 
so , that was really neat . 
that is neat . 
so , do you have a big family ? 
he does . 
he does ? 
he does , 
i do n't . 
but he has enough relatives to make up for me not having any . 
that 's kind of how my husband and i are . 
i have a kind of a big family 
and he just has himself and his brother and his parents , 
and that 's it . 
so , he had to kind of get used to us when we first started going together . 
that 's what happened when i first met my husband . 
i said , this ca n't be , 
nobody can have this many relatives , 
because a lot of them lived in a group down one highway . 
and , there was a lake , 
and they all lived down there by it . 
how nice . 
and , so , we were going down , the highway , 
and he kept saying , this is where my uncle lives 
and this is where my aunt lives and my uncle , 
and i kept thinking , this guy is putting me on . 
nobody has this many relatives . 
but , they really were all there . 
how funny . 
and , another thing that 's really good about family reunions , is having everybody just cook whatever is their specialty , and bring it . because nobody liked the same thing . 
but you had a choice 
and then you got to taste a lot of new dishes and stuff too , and get a lot of good recipes . 
everybody might not like that . 
not be able to do it . 
so , did people come from out of town to the reunion 
they did . 
they came from all over . 
did you put them up in other people 's houses 
or did you have hotel rooms , 
or , how did you do it ? 
they just stayed with different ones of them . 
they did . 
and then , they had it . 
it had gotten so big that they had it at the church . 
and , they had a church service ahead of it , , 
and then they ate out on the ground . 
how nice . 
and they just brought food with them ? 
did they just have over a weekend ? 
is that how they did it ? 
i do n't think my family is as big as your husband 's . 
i do n't think we 'd need a whole church , 
but the problem is we are all really scattered , around . 
there is n't any one place where most of us live , 
so if we ever had a reunion , we 'd kind of all have to stay in a hotel . 
there would be one person who lived there that would have a house , 
but they could n't put everybody up . 
so i think it would get kind of expensive . 
but , you know what you can do ? 
about the same distance for all of you all to come ? 
they have these places where you can rent them 
it 's a big place , 
it 's got little rooms that separate off of it and stuff , 
and , it 's not very expensive that way . 
i see , 
so everybody could stay together ? 
they have a convention type thing . 
a house or something . 
and , then it has little rooms off of it where you 'd go and sleep at night time . 
but , then it has a kitchenette and things like that 
that would be great because then you could spend so much more time together , than if you all were in your own hotels or something . 
and then , every time you wanted to go eat with somebody , you 'd probably have to go or something . 
it would run into a lot of money . 
that sounds like fun . 
what you can do is , you can write different places , the chamber of commerce , tell them what you 're interested in . 
ask them what they have at area lakes and all . if they have something like that 
because now every time we plan anything , just about , we write to the chamber of commerce of where we 're going because , you can find out so much easier , that way , than try to locate it , 
calling different places can really run you up a bill . 
you ca n't get it exact usually , 
and then everybody goes to that place . 
and that is not bad at all . 
but , lot of times they 'll have little cabins , 
and three or four or five families can stay in those cabins because they have just the single bunk beds and stuff . 
and , they can all stay in those cabins . 
and then you can have cookouts and stuff like that 
that does n't cost you as much . 
that would be great . 
that would be really nice . 
that sounds good . 
now we had one , 
this was before i lost a lot more of my family , 
but it was n't any of my immediate family anyway . because i did n't have any of them left . 
but they had thing where everybody could come and meet and go out to eat . 
this was like everybody came into town and went to this restaurant . 
i did n't like that much . 
was it hard to decide who to invite and who not to invite . 
did you have to draw a line , 
or did the people that had that reunion have to draw a line ? 
whoever , wanted to come . 
what they did was , they wrote to all the initial people the oldest ones . 
then those in turn got a hold of these other ones . 
i think there was four or five different people , that would call some of them , if they did n't have their addresses and all on them , 
and they told them that what we had to do was when we sent back in our information , we had to tell them how many people were going to be coming . 
and you had to check off what all you would be willing to bring . 
i see . 
that 's the reason it ended up in a church because there was just so many of them . 
but , it turned out so much better like that . because they knew ahead of time how many people to expect . 
if there was a sickness or something like that you 're not going to lose that many . 
that would just be a few . 
but how about because of divorce and stuff like that ? 
my parents are divorced , 
and they are both remarried 
i do n't know . 
if you wanted them both to come , then you would have put that down on the list 
and you would have been the one that sent their invitation to them , and ask for their information . 
to send back to those other people . 
i 'm kind of in control over who comes . just from my family . 
then , they sent their little things to us . 
it was up to me , whether i wanted my kids and any of my family to come . 
i see . 
i see , 
that 's a pretty good idea to do it that way . 
if i did n't want somebody to come , then i just would n't send them one of the questionnaires . 
so there really was n't a problem that way . 
that 's a real good idea . 
but , i tell you what , 
that 's the neatest book we 've got , 
i bet . 
course we 've still got it 
and they charged us five or six dollars that we paid for the book to be printed . 
and it 's not a hard back book , 
it 's just a , folder type thing . 
it has everybody that you could ever imagine , and some you could n't . 
how neat . 
i know , 
that 's really neat . 
that 's really neat . 
and , it will be something my kids will have . 
i was just thinking of that . what you could tell your kids . 
i do n't know if you 're like me , 
but i know very little about before my grandparents . 
very , very little about it . 
the thing is i know a lot of stories , 
but i ca n't remember who it was about . 
my grandparents told us when i was growing up and even when i was an adult 
they still tell all kinds of stories about their parents and their cousins and their best friends , cause they all grew up in new york city , 
but i remember these stories 
but i have no idea who it was that was in those stories . 
i could n't tell my kids what those people were like , 
i just remember they had some funny stories , 
but i do n't know who it was . 
but then usually when you find out some information from your parents , then you can find somebody else that can tell you something else about these , 
what do you usually wear to work ? . 
i am basically retired now . 
i was in education and in administration , 
so basically i wore dresses . and heels , 
and i because my work often took me into court never was one that got accustomed to wearing pants suits and pants to work . 
but that was just me . 
i know many people are very comfortable in the classroom and what have you wearing pants . 
i guess i was just old enough not to be very comfortable in it . 
how about you ? 
i work at t i 
and they do n't really have , uh , dress code , so to speak there . 
you can pretty much wear whatever you want to , 
and i wear anything from jeans , when i 'm feeling really casual to suits and dresses when i 'm meeting with a customer 
or , i teach training classes , 
and so when i 'm teaching a class , obviously i wear a suit or dress , 
so . it , definitely fluctuates mainly with what i 'm going to be doing that day and kind of what my mood is 
and when it 's raining , i 'm more likely to wear jeans 
and when it 's really cold i 'm more likely to wear jeans or pants or sweaters , or that type of thing . 
but it just really depends on the weather and my mood 
and then obviously when i 'm doing anything that i 'm in front of people , or making presentations , teaching , whatever . i 'm going to dress up more . 
and i think that does make a difference , 
because when you do have to be in front of people i think the tendency there is to wear dresses and suits and , more classical style of clothing . 
what about the mini skirt ? 
there are a few people every now and then that wear those to work . 
they 're pretty strict about that , though . 
jeans are n't exactly professional 
but , for some reason a mini skirt is , to me a little more unprofessional to wear to work than jeans 
maybe it 's just because of the sexist views and everything 
i do n't know , 
i would n't want to wear a mini skirt to work . 
i have seen a few people do it though , 
and they were n't overly revealing . 
they were pretty much in good taste , 
for me i just , would n't want to do that . 
there are mini skirts 
and there are mini skirts . 
there are some that are really short 
and then there are some that may be will come like four inches or five inches above the knee . 
that 's what i 've seen . 
and again it depends upon the size , the shape of the person , as well as the shape of the person 's legs . 
even though i retired from education i do modeling 
and i teach at a modeling agency here . 
so , when we are doing wardrobing we do discuss a great deal , the mini skirt and the types of clothes to wear on the job . 
even though i may have them from sixth grade on up through grandmothers , in my class . 
and i always try to emphasize the , clothes that you wear should not necessarily be the greatest fad , 
because maybe those are not the clothes that are the most appealing to you , or the most complimentary to you . 
but the mini skirt many times will evoke comments you do n't really want . 
and then you 're in the situation where you 're very unhappy . 
i feel like too , on the job , when there 's men around and some of the managers are men , you do n't want them looking at your legs necessarily . 
that 's right . 
and to me i just would n't feel comfortable in that at work , 
i have to agree with that , 
even when they was very , very popular in the early sixties , 
again maybe because there were still many teachers who wore mini skirts , 
we had no regulation against it 
and a lot of the kids did of course , 
and it could be very embarrassing for the men teachers . 
because they were not that careful in how they handled themselves in those mini skirts . 
and so , i think i do not like to see , in the corporate areas all the women dressed like men , with the suits and white shirts and ties and what have you so that they all look exactly the same . 
i do n't like that , 
i think there should be individuality in dressing . 
even with the very tailored look of a suit , sometimes i like to have just a little something that 's feminine . 
you do n't want to over do it 
but , just a little , a touch of it just to say , i am a woman , 
but i can be professional too . 
and i do n't think that you have to be manish and extremely tailored to look professional . 
i think that you make of that what you wish 
and you can go the opposite direction and over do all the frills and laces and flounces and what have you , which do n't belong at least in my opinion , in the work place , 
you can have a classical look without a great deal of adornment and what have you and still be very feminine . 
because that was one thing i always fought against . 
i started out as a physical education teacher . 
so i was always fighting against the idea of looking tailored or manish , 
and people would never , ever guess that i was phys ed 
and that pleased me , 
and so , then i , of course , just continued what i considered the best style of clothing for me at work 
and i find even at home here now , , i will wear blue jeans or i 'll wear shorts and what have you and be very comfortable 
but when i go out somewhere , then unless i have a pair of dress slacks , i do n't usually wear a lot of blue jeans . 
i have difficulty getting them to fit me comfortably any how . 
and , so i just feel that each person has to dress to their own liking and for their own comfort . 
but there are certain norms that companies should be able to put out as guidelines for their employees . 
that 's one thing i like about t i is that they are n't overly strict about what you wear 
and your boss does n't come up to you and say remember , tomorrow you have a meeting 
so you 'd better wear a suit . 
they leave it up to you and your judgment to use good judgment and dress tastefully and dress for whatever occasion you may have . 
the only real restrictions they have are no halter tops and no shorts , 
even the long walking short of the squirts , the split skirts , anything that could be considered shorts they do n't allow . 
that 's good . 
but , other than that , it 's pretty lax 
and i think that 's good because it does allow people to be individual 
and it allows you to kind of dress the way you feel that day . 
or if you want to be comfortable and casual you can , 
and sometimes i think you may be more productive if you 're comfortable with what you 're wearing and can feel more relaxed . 
and when i 'm writing training material , i prefer to be more comfortable unless i know i have to meet with a customer later during the day . 
so , i think , that is good that they 're like that . 
i do know there 's a lot of companies that are very strict about what the employees wear 
and they must wear blue or gray or black and a white shirt and no variation , 
and i do n't quite agree with that . 
i do n't either . 
fortunately i do n't have to work in those companies . 
but i , did have a group come over from one of the banks , over the children 's hospital where i was volunteering 
and they were doing a presentation 
and every one of the young execs coming up were dressed exactly a like , men and women . 
they all had on the gray jackets and the gray trousers or skirts and the white blouses and the same color tie . 
you could hardly tell the women from the men except for the lengths of the pants . 
and one was a skirt 
and one was a pant . 
and i think that 's sad because that does n't allow for any individuality . 
that can stifle creativity . 
i agree . 
i guess we 've talked probably long enough . 
i guess so , 
it 's been nice talking with you . 
nice talking to you too , 
i enjoyed it . 
deanna 
on capital punishment in our state , they give the death penalty for shooting of a policeman , 
and i believe also in killing someone in the process of rape , 
and i do n't really remember what else . 
what do you think about it . 
i think it 's justified . 
very much so . 
i , agree , , 
i think it should be in other cases other than just shooting a policeman . 
i do too , 
i do too . 
i think they 're doing their duty , 
but i think if they 're going to come out and kill somebody else then they deserve it . 
they ought to get it for killing a civilian just as easily as a policeman . 
that 's right , 
i agree . 
i agree . 
i heard something on the news the other night 
it was in our little lewisville paper that comes out twice a week on the front page every week , 
there 's a little thing at the bottom 
it 's like a call in survey that says do you think so 
and then you call this number 
and you press one for yes and two for no . 
and one of the questions the other day , this last paper was do you think that capital punishment ought to apply to drug dealers . which i thought was a real interesting question . 
did you see sixty minutes tonight , by any chance ? 
i did n't , 
they were showing a segment on a man in philadelphia that 's going after the drug dealers . 
he 's just a civilian , 
he 's a black man , 
and he just got fed up with it . 
and he said he 's had his house broken into and windows smashed and his car stolen three times and everything , trying to keep him quiet , 
but he 's organizing people , 
and they 're going out and marching on the corners and taking back their territory . 
i think that 's what it 's going to take , though . 
i think so , 
i really do . 
the police , i do n't think can do it alone . 
that 's right , 
i think you 're right . 
it 's going to take all of us getting together , 
i 'm sorry , 
my kid is asking for a kiss and a hug so he can go to bed . 
it 's going to take all of us getting together and just saying , we are not going to take it any more . 
we wo n't allow this in our neighborhood . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
and it said they 're going to other neighborhoods from there , 
and then quite often they 'll get shot , because they 're horning in on somebody else 's territory . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
i think they said forty-one had been shot out of one church in the last year . 
the only thing about the death penalty i know that they try to be careful 
and they try to be sure 
but these people are on death row for twenty years . 
i know it . 
i think being convicted is one thing , 
and that 's great if they 're sentenced to death , 
to me you could not sentence them to death unless , the case was for sure . 
by the time it gets there 
and they 've been convicted 
and then they 've been sentenced to death , 
they 're sure . 
there 's no doubt , 
then it should happen , 
there can be no shadow of a doubt in my mind , 
there has to be no shadow of a doubt to get that penalty . 
that 's right . 
so once , they 've gotten the penalty and there is no doubt , do it , 
i guess that sounds cold , 
but we 're keeping these men in prison for fifteen or twenty years on death row , and not doing anything with them , 
that 's right . 
and it 's costing us a heck of a lot of money 
and that 's terrible to look at it that way , 
it is , 
i know 
but that 's the way it is . 
if the crime was bad enough that they were sentenced to death , then do it . 
we had one in virginia that was sentenced to death 
and the execution was to have taken place a few weeks ago , 
i do n't know if there was anything in your paper about it . 
i did n't notice it , 
and there was a lot of protest , 
even robert redford was protesting this guy 's execution . 
so the governor backed down 
and i was so mad . 
his crime was just horrible . 
and those kind of people you do n't reform them , 
you do n't . 
if they 're the kind of people that commit these grotesque crimes and have done it over and over and over again , you do n't reform those kind of people . 
and being under the influence of drugs is no excuse to me . 
and i do n't know , 
the same thing goes with some of these insanity pleas . 
if you 're insane enough that you can go cut twelve people up into little bitty pieces and bury them in your back yard , then can you be helped , 
i have my doubts . 
that 's right , 
i do too . 
i do n't know , 
i think there 's a point , 
some of these plea bargains and all this kind of stuff that they do , it just gets out of hand , 
was n't it lewisburg that had a lot of bad things happening just in the last couple of weeks , 
or was it not . 
i think it was the south east area , from dallas . 
my daughter lives down in rowlett 
and she was telling me about it . 
i ca n't remember what the town was , some little area . 
we 've had several here lately 
there were several of them in north dallas 
and then it started kind of happening a couple of places in south dallas 
and that 's maybe what you were talking about . 
men breaking in to houses and , or a man taking little girls right straight out of their beds at night . and , breaking in , obviously watching them in the house , because they 're breaking into the right window the little girl 's bedroom . and taking them out , putting them in a car and driving them out and taking them out and molesting them and then bringing them back and throwing them back in their own front yards . 
is that right . 
that is happened , 
i had n't heard about that . 
i think there 's been six or seven of them , over the last probably eight or nine months . 
they do n't kill them ? 
they do n't kill them , 
and they 're all anywhere from nine to twelve years old is what they 've been . 
and he 's taken them and raped them and then brought them right back and just kind of thrown them out of the car in their front yard . 
that 's scary , is n't it . 
can you imagine , because it happens in the middle of the night , 
so these parents did n't know the kid was gone until the kid is knocking on the door screaming , let me in . 
can you imagine . 
you would n't even dare put little emblems in the window saying child in this room , in case of fire . 
have you seen those ? 
i never even thought about that . 
maybe i 'll take it out . 
i had n't even thought about it . 
that 's terrible . 
it is . 
we were over at a neighbor 's tonight 
and , my little boy is just a little over two 
and their little boy is five , 
so there 's a big difference , 
and they were playing in the back yard 
and we were getting ready to leave 
and i went out in the back yard to get brian 
and the boys were gone 
and the back fence was open . 
. 
and she did n't act like it bothered her at all , 
this happens all the time . 
and we walked through the fence out , 
the alleys , come to the back of the house . 
and i looked down both directions of the alley 
and i saw neither one of them 
. and she was he does this all the time where are you screaming , j d 
and my heart was in my throat , 
and he 's five ? 
and brian was two houses down , 
i do n't know , 
i know . 
parents around here just let their kids run everywhere , 
and i just ca n't do that . 
there was a little girl picked up in rowlett from her front yard 
and her dad was working in the back yard , and had just left her few minutes in the front yard 
and somebody apparently drove up and took her 
and they never saw her again . 
this is too scary , 
that is just too scary . 
i let brian play here in the back yard 
and there 's two gates that go into the back yard 
and we 've got one of those big eight foot privacy fences . 
and one of the gates has a padlock on it 
and then the other gate just has one of those slide bar things , 
but it 's on the inside , 
they 'd have to come over the fence , 
they could not open a gate . 
and i still feel a little uneasy about him playing back there . 
if i do n't hear him playing i get up and come out and look out the window real often , 
and watch , 
i do n't blame you . 
it 's really scary that you have to be that scared about your kids 
but you do , 
better safe than sorry . 
and if they find who 's doing that to those little girls , as far as i 'm concerned he could , fry . 
he could fry . 
to put it very bluntly , he could fry , 
because sometimes there are crimes worse than murder . 
, 
and i believe that , 
and this is one of them . 
because these little girls will never be the same . 
that 's terrible . 
never be the same , 
so , i do n't know , 
, it 's really scary 
and i do n't know what needs to be done 
it seems like there 's no room in jails to put them in jail 
i 'm taking a business law class at night 
and the guy that teaches it is a practicing criminal attorney 
and , so he comes in and tell us all these bizarre cases 
and he said if you ever get on a jury you can pretty much guess , whatever you sentence them to , they 're going to serve about a quarter . 
it 's going to be reduced , 
they 'll serve a quarter of it , 
so , if you want them to stay in prison for fifteen years , do n't sentence them to fifteen years , 
sentence them to a hundred . 
i do n't know , 
it just does n't seem right . 
it does n't , 
it does n't . 
they just get out , 
what are we going to do about it ? 
how can it be changed . unless the legislature will do something 
i do n't know . 
that 's the thing , 
we 're just going to have to adopt a completely different attitude , 
and we 're going to have to say , if you commit this crime and if we 're sure you commit this crime , you are going to be sentenced to death period , period , 
and do it . 
and if you commit this crime , you will be in prison for the rest of your life . 
we 're not going to say we 're going to put you there for the rest of your life and let you out in fifteen years , 
we 're really going to do it . 
and i understand they 're doing it because the prisons are full , 
but somewhere we 've got to come up with some money to build more and keep these people in them . 
i think so . 
i think it would be worth it 
i was watching a show about this the other night 
what do you think ? 
i 'm thinking about from one to ten what my no would be . 
i 'm not a member of the n r a although my , father is . 
but , i think the n r a has gone overboard the wrong way , 
they 're sitting there on number ten , 
they 're saying absolutely no gun control , 
we do n't even want to think about it 
and i think that 's a dumb , situation . 
because there has got to be some kind of background check to see , that the people who are buying a gun are buying it for a useful purpose 
if you 're going to hunt with it , or if you 're going to do sport shooting you can wait a week . 
that 's true . 
if they can check your driver 's license every time you get a ticket 
they should be able to go back and find out if you 've had any kind of psychiatric record , armed felony record . 
that 's true . 
any of that kind of stuff . 
and , it seems to me right now that there 's not that much of a check . 
i think there 's a check for felonies , on your record . 
if the gun shop owner does it , 
but he has to go out and do it . 
that 's true , i think , 
and if it 's a private sale , of course , then there 's nothing . 
and that 's my only problem with making you get the check and everything is , i guess bad guys , if you want to call them bad guys , they are going to get a gun no matter what . 
i do n't think they 're going to go to a gun store or pawn shop and get it the right way when there 's a check , 
i think they 're going to go out and find it someway , individual sale or something like that . 
but maybe we 'll prevent a few john hinckleys . 
i hope . 
that 's true . 
that 's the kind of people , 
like i say , i do n't think the guy who 's going to rob a seven eleven , is going to rob a seven eleven whether he has a gun or a knife , baseball bat , or whatever , 
knife , 
he 's going to do what he wants to do . 
that 's true . 
i just think it makes honest people more honest 
and the people who want it , it 's not that big a deal , like i say , to wait . 
and , if you have to have it in a hurry , something 's wrong . 
it makes you wonder , what they need it for all of a sudden here . , 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i 'm married to a policeman , 
so we talk about this a lot . 
i imagine his opinion is a little bit towards the one there , on the scale of one to ten 
worried about that . 
too many people have too much access . 
they do . 
they do . 
basically it says here buy me and go rob a seven eleven 
or even the little toy guns look real . 
that 's really gotten bad 
i 've heard so much about that on tv 
and that 's kind of scary to think that you may be shot for holding one . 
or your child accidently . 
if your child is old enough , 
there are a lot of kids who when they 're ten look like they 're twelve , or fourteen and , especially some of the minority children . , 
that 's the truth . 
and if some of them are doing something that they should n't be and then they have one of those toy guns in their hands 
and a cop comes up , 
you ca n't blame them . 
it looks like they 've got a weapon . 
you ca n't , 
and you ca n't take the chances . 
that 's right , 
because there 's been kids that age who have killed people . 
they 're making them neon colors . 
and i think , that 's a good idea . 
and the kids do n't care . 
that 's right . 
my kid did n't care . 
i know . 
he picks up a stick and goes bang . 
it does n't make any difference to him . 
a gun is a gun to them . 
they can play with anything and make it a gun . 
that 's exactly right . 
i think they ought to do that with toy guns , 
they ought to make them very reasonably do something outrageous to them . 
so that they 're not very distinguishable from a real gun . 
that 's right . 
that 's a good idea . 
i was watching t v yesterday 
and there is a town in georgia , 
and it 's the law that you have a gun , 
every adult is able to carry a gun , 
and they encourage it . 
that 's kind of , 
they encourage it ? 
and , the police love it . which really surprised me 
i think that 's what they were going after , 
they went to interview this town , 
it 's a little dinky town , 
they went to interview them about the gun control laws 
and the police said all the people said , that 's fine 
we could care less . 
we 're all honest , and everything like , that , 
we all carry them , 
but we do n't mind being checked . 
and i think it kind of took that neatness away from it , 
everybody 's got one 
and , so , it was quite unusual to see the people in that town . 
i do n't know . 
that 's kind of an odd thing . 
i do n't know , 
i have a gun 
and my folks have always had . 
i learned to shoot when i was real little . 
i think that 's a lot of it too , is that people need to teach their kids , what to do and what not to do . 
because my dad started letting me shoot a little air b b gun , when i was probably five or six years old . 
but it was , this is how you hold it , 
this is the only place that you do it , which , was out far and away 
and you do n't ever touch it unless i 'm here , 
and you do n't point it at people , 
that 's what we 're doing . 
then they went to the texas parks and recreation but the hunter safety program , that you have to do now . 
i think it started in about nineteen seventy . 
if you want to go deer hunting and your birthday 's after nineteen something , fifty-five or something , then you have to attend one of these hunter safety courses 
that 's neat . 
or you ca n't get a deer license . 
that 's real neat . 
and it 's basic stuff , 
it 's when you 're climbing over a barbed wire fence , do n't , lean your gun against it , 
and then you crawl over it , and shoot yourself . 
and those things happen . 
that 's real good . 
it is always incredible to me the number of times those kind of stupid accidents happen to people . 
and they usually are real basic , common sense things . 
put the safety on the gun . 
always assume it 's loaded . 
i know 
and people do n't want to believe that . 
it 's empty , 
it 's empty . 
i took the clip out , or whatever 
and i forgot about the one in the chamber . 
in the chamber . 
that 's exactly right . 
we 're trying to teach our daughter . 
she knows real well about her daddy 's guns , what not to do and what to do around them . 
does he got them locked up all the time too ? 
when he 's , 
she 'll know , 
she 'll even tell her friends , do n't ever , touch my daddy 's guns or something like that . 
do n't even think about it , 
so , she 's real good about it . 
and , she 's never been curious , 
if he has them out , cleaning them she can be there 
and he 'll tell how he 's doing it or show her the insides or stuff like that . 
if you make it where it 's not something , curious , 
to be feared 
not something to be curious about and not something to be totally scared about . 
if it 's just one more piece of something , 
but they 've got to understand , like you said , never touch it . 
they 'd have that respect for what it does , and what it can do . 
we have a shotgun , 
and it 's up in the closet , 
and then the shells are in another part 
and it 's something to think about , 
and i got it because my husband used to travel , and be out , 
he was out of the country at one time for three months . 
i live in a nice neighborhood , 
but still , 
still . 
sometimes i wonder if i 'm not about to load it because i assume that the kids are not going to ever get up there , 
and it 's in a case , 
and it 's put up 
and it 's away and all that , 
but , i do n't want to take the chance 
and , i think , if somebody ever does break in , it 's going to take me a year to find the shells , and then get it , 
he 's got to go to a lot of trouble . 
hold on , 
hold on , 
he 's in here somewhere , 
i know he is . 
i know how to use one . 
we go hunting every once in a while 
and he showed me how to use his guns 
and i really enjoy it 
but if someone did break in , i do n't know that i could or would even grab it . 
i know , 
i used to think about that , 
it was a lot easier when i was single , 
it was one thing 
and when i was just married with no kids , when it was just me , it was an easy decision . 
that 's true . 
it was you come after me , you 're going to get it , 
and now there 's so many other things , 
where are the kids , 
what are they doing , 
where is this person coming in from , 
and , if you manage to get it out then how can you even afford to think about what you 're going to do because you do n't know where your kids are , at the same time . 
we have dogs that are very protective . 
if they 're stupid enough to come through then . 
we have two big dogs in the backyard , and always kind of thought that too , 
kind of an extra buffer . 
they 've got to be pretty stupid , 
and most people that break in or whatever , go to houses without the dogs , luckily . 
any advantage that they can take . 
and , that 's one of them 
unfortunately , 
guess it makes it worth the dog food over the years . 
really does . 
me too , on gun control . 
we 're in pretty good agreement actually on it . 
i think we are . 
it would be even more interesting . 
i 'm glad you 're not . 
me too . 
i 'm glad to find there 's another reasonable person in garland . 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
you too , 
what kind of lawn and garden work do you do ? . 
right now the place where i 'm living , the yard was basically neglected for about the last twenty-five years , 
so i 've been trying to rebuild and reestablish the entire lawn , 
and after three years of working at it , i 've been amazed at just what a little bit of doing help out things to the lawn has really brought it back . 
instead of mowing in the same direction every time , changing , 
one time you 'll cut the lawn the long way , 
then you 'll go the opposite way , 
instead of going lengthways , you go width , 
and it helps the grass come back . 
does it really ? 
i did n't know that . 
you 've been working on it for three years ? 
for three years . 
what have you done ? . 
killing lots of fire ants . 
i was firmly convinced the entire , front yard was nothing but one gigantic ant mound . 
because it was like , you could n't even stand still out there . 
i can barely hear you . 
is this better ? 
a little bit , 
it was like you 'd go out in the yard to water something , 
you 'd just be standing still . 
and the ants would start crawling up your legs . 
it 's like , i 'm not standing in a mound , though . 
how did you get rid of them ? 
dursban two . 
a chemical called dursban two , 
dursban two , 
it 's a crystal . 
dursban will get rid of just about anything . 
so you have n't had a problem with that , since ? 
not bad . 
every , once in a while you 'll have a mound pop up , 
but that 's , to be expected . 
did it kill anything else it was n't supposed to ? 
not really . 
as far as i can tell it has n't killed anything it was n't supposed to . 
even the area of the grass that was underneath and around the mounds it did n't kill it . 
that 's pretty wild . 
we used it for fleas . 
we had fleas in our yard real bad last year , 
and we did that , 
basically , i like to mow the lawn , believe it or not , 
but i sometimes have problems starting the mower , 
so a lot of times i wo n't get out and do it , 
but my husband , basically , does most of it , 
and he does the edging and all that kind of thing , 
and we 're renting , 
this lawn could probably stand a couple of loads of dirt , and some saint augustine . 
we have winter rye out back , 
i do n't even know what it is out front , 
but this is the first house we 've ever lived in , 
and we 're just not real into the lawn probably because we 're renting , i guess ? 
you said you had problems with fleas last year in the yard ? 
i found one thing that , it 's kind of a weird thing to say to put out on the lawn , 
but , every time i 've done it , it drives the fleas completely out of the area . 
what ? 
powdered sulphur . 
i wonder why it does ? 
you do n't have to put a whole lot out , 
just if you 've got a broadcast spreader 
i think it comes in a forty-pound bag , 
and it 's real fine , like flour 
and you just go out , and do the entire yard , 
and you do n't have to put clumps of it , 
just very lightly cover the entire yard . 
i 'll have to remember that , because hopefully we wo n't have them this year , 
but we have a cat that comes in and out , 
and the cat was getting fleas and stuff and bringing them in the house , 
so we had a real problem last year with fleas , 
and it was quite a drag because we got them in our house , 
and we 're christians , 
and we prayed that we could get rid of these fleas , 
and we got rid of them , believe it or not , with smoke bombs , which is just about impossible to do , 
but we did , 
and so we do n't want them back this year ? 
so i 'll remember that if we see it 's a problem in the yard . 
they were so bad last year , even ticks . 
i do n't know , 
we 've had ticks before a lot , 
and we 've had to get out and treat our lawn for that . 
i think we used dursban and diazinon and get out there and do what you do with that thing and spread it all out everywhere , 
but that 's about the extent of our lawn care . 
so , i do n't know , 
do you enjoy doing it ? 
i love it . 
my wife ca n't understand 
it 'd be a hundred degrees outside , 
i 'll be out there . 
but it 's too hot to be working in the yard . 
i 'm under the trees , 
i 'm having fun , 
and i 'm stopping to drink water , 
so what 's the problem ? . 
that 's funny . 
not everybody enjoys it , though . 
everybody has a different thing . 
i kind of enjoy it 
and my husband does n't . 
sometimes i 'm too busy to get out there and do it , 
and he does n't really enjoy doing it , 
but he 'll do it , 
and he does n't gripe about it or anything , 
but i 'm kind of like you 
and he 's kind of like your wife . in that he does n't really enjoy it , 
but i would like to have a garden , 
that 's my thing , 
but right now where we 're living we have the trees where their roots are at the top of the ground everywhere over the ground . 
i do n't know what kind of trees they are , 
but you ca n't have a garden , 
you ca n't till it , 
or it 'll tear up a nice tiller . 
so we 're going to wait until we move . 
we do n't have a lot of sun , either , because it 's big trees back there . 
so we 're going to wait , 
and when we move that 's one of our priorities , is to get a house where we can have a garden . 
and so i 'd like to do that . 
i have a feeling i 'll be out there all the time taking care of that , 
but that 's our next thing . 
do you have a garden ? 
this is the neat thing about the place we ended up at . 
sitting on about a two acre lot now , 
and , the back half is my garden . 
are you kidding ? 
that sounds fun . 
where do you all live ? 
in missouri city . 
southwest side of houston . 
southwest where ? 
southwest houston . 
because we 're in dallas . 
i guess i assumed you were here . 
that 's neat . 
that 's what we want . 
that 's really what we want , 
but we just have n't been able to do that yet , 
so one day we 'll be able to do it , 
and i 'm excited about it . 
and then i do n't know anything about it , 
i have to learn , 
and then you 'll have to give me a call on gardening . 
what do you do in your garden , 
and i 'll go nothing , 
what should i do ? 
but i guess that 's about it though . 
it sounds like we 've covered all the bases 
so i guess we 'll let you go , 
and do you have anything else you wanted to say ? 
it 's just , i 've had an very enjoyable conversation with you . 
i know , 
you too . 
i hope you have a nice day , 
and we 'll talk to you later . 
you too . 
what have you seen ? 
the latest movie i 've seen that i thought was fantastic was dances with wolves . 
i knew you were going to say that . 
i want to go see that . 
i just finally ended up going to see it , 
and one day my husband had the kids 
and i just went because we could never get to go see it together because it 's so long . 
by the time we had a babysitter for that long . 
so i finally just went to see it . 
and i just thought it was fantastic . 
i watched costner on the academy awards . 
i was hoping he was going to get best actor . 
but he did pretty good on that one . 
the buffalo scene in that thing was so real . 
it just blew me away . 
i bet . 
there 're several of them that are out right now that i want to see . 
dances . silence of the lambs . 
i 'm afraid to go see that one . 
that one looks so scary just , from the previews . 
i thought i 'd probably have nightmares for the next six months . 
it 's supposed to be good though . 
that 's what people said , 
i know some friends who went to see it . 
they said it was really riveting . 
that 's what they said about the exorcist . 
it 's terrible . 
you 'll have nightmares . 
i watched last weekend . 
me and my roommate . 
we laughed about it . 
you 're not a thirteen year old . 
i do n't know . 
i saw it when i was a kid 
and i thought , . 
i guess it was because i 'd read the book before i saw the movie . 
and the book , to me , was far more frightening than the movie was . 
he 's a very good writer 
and he had a way of putting you in that scene . 
and , of course , i was living alone at the time 
you start hearing noises . 
call the crisis line . 
i bet . 
and there 's rats in the attic . 
let 's see . 
there was a couple of others that are out , 
and i ca n't remember , 
i saw one i thought was crummy . 
with that new michael j fox movie , the hard way . 
i did n't even like the previews on that . 
i know . 
i ended up at the theater 
and there did n't seem to be anything else on i wanted to see , 
so i 'll try that . 
but it was n't worth anything . 
i did n't care for that at all . 
i do n't much care for michael j fox anyway . 
the last two i saw him in , one of those back to the future , part three deals that was crummy also . 
i did n't think that was any good 
i saw the original back to the future 
i hardly ever go see a sequel . 
i think i 've ever seen a sequel was two thousand and one . 
two thousand and ten was far better . 
two thousand and one was a good movie if you had read the book . 
i had n't read it 
and i could n't figure what was going on half the time , 
nobody could figure it out . 
there 's just things , 
all you can do is put it in words . 
you ca n't put it in pictures . 
a lot of that stuff that was going on in the film , you say what is this ? 
what 's the significance of the apes . 
i should probably go back and read the book now that i just saw the movie again not too long ago . 
the book is really good . 
i keep a little library of books that i just like to read over and over again 
and that 's one of them . 
it 's so well written . 
. i have one i bet you have n't seen if you do n't have kids . otis and milo . 
you 're right . 
i have n't . 
that is the most precious movie . 
it has . 
it 's the story of this little cat and dog 
and it 's not cutesy . 
it 's just so realistic . everything they do . 
you wonder how in the world they ever got them to do some of these things . 
and it was , a real dog and cat 
a real dog and cat ? 
and all the other animals . 
they initially start out in the barnyard kind of setting where they 're raised . 
and then the cat gets on this treacherous journey . 
he climbs into a box and ends up floating down this river 
and he winds up all over creation . 
i do n't know where in the world it is . 
somewhere in china somewhere i think that it was filmed . 
but it 's just really an incredible thing . 
sounds sort of like the incredible journey . 
it was pretty wild 
and . of course , the only sound is dudley moore narrates it . 
but there 's nothing else to keep it going . 
but it really keeps me going . 
i 've seen it twice now . 
that sounds a lot like a walt disney film . 
sounds a lot like a walt disney film . 
it was like the best of the walt disney ones . 
walt disney 's kind of gotten worse in my opinion over the past few years . 
not anymore . 
i was raised on walt disney films . 
old yeller . big red . 
all those old good ones that you wish they had on more now , 
when i was a little kid , i saw the incredible journey on christmas eve 
and it was so good that i had forgotten that it was christmas eve . 
that 's something for a kid . 
that 's pretty good . 
and that was something for greedy old me at christmas time , 
i 'll tell you . 
let 's see . 
what are some other ones i 've seen lately . 
i 'm trying to remember . 
i ca n't . 
i just saw one on the video . 
have you seen the gods must be crazy , part two ? 
that is a riot . 
is it ? 
the first one was really good . 
but the second one , is really good too . 
i was really surprised . 
i did n't much care for the first one . 
i thought it was funny . 
but , that 's my sense of humor . 
i 'll have to go get that one i guess . 
it 's hard to find movies that are n't terrible violent or anymore . 
and i guess i 'm just middle america or something . 
i just go to be entertained and and not really interested in the terminator or some of the schwarzenegger stuff . 
i get so tired of these sequels . 
number nine , number ten , number fourteen . 
freddy 's revenge part twenty-five or whatever . 
. 
. 
freddy eats a nuclear warhead . 
i 'm so sick and tired of that . 
i just ca n't believe it . 
it 's like rocky films . 
i have n't seen a one . 
i 've never seen any of those . 
i ca n't stand stallone . 
i ca n't either . 
and i was afraid that rambo was going to do the same thing that rocky was going to do go into fourteen hundred episodes . 
i hardly ever watch t v . 
if i ever get the hankering to see something , i 've got maybe about thirty or forty movies 
i do n't even rent them . 
you do n't ? 
i figure if i find a movie i like , i 'll buy it . 
cause i just watch them over and over again . 
my husband does that . 
he can watch them over and over . 
there 's very few i would want to see that many times . 
so once he has one he likes to watch it over and over . 
my very favorite one that is excalibur . 
that was a good one . 
i have n't seen that one in a long time . 
i loved that film . , 
it 's just so well done . 
and i lived over in england for four years , 
that was the first place i ever saw it . 
it was so good . 
it was filmed in ireland . 
and they got pretty scenery in ireland . 
i bet . 
it 's nice . 
and i 've been down to the south of england where supposedly king arthur 's castle was . 
so , that really has a lot of meaning for you to see that . 
it was unimpressive to look at . 
the whole thing was about the size of a medium house . 
when i was in england years ago . and i went to shakespeare 's and stratford-on-avon and all that 
and it was like you could n't stand up inside of it because it was so short . 
the ceilings were so short . 
there 's some nice stuff over there to see . 
i spent four years traveling around and did n't see hardly anything . 
i need , to go over there and stay about twenty years so i can just travel . go around all the places . 
stonehenge , of course . 
everybody makes the obligatory trip to stonehenge . 
big deal . 
here 's some rocks sitting out in the middle of a field . 
it 's boring . 
did you see any movies over there ? 
i remember i went to see don quixote over there when it came out . 
it came out right around the time , with sophia loren 
and that was a riot to see that . 
you know something , 
come to think of it , i do n't think i went to the movies one time . 
cause when you 're touristing , you probably do n't want to take the time to go see a movie . 
where i lived . it was a little town called newmarket . about seventy miles north of london . 
and there was another town called barry saint edmunds about twenty miles away from us . 
and they had a little theater company there 
and we use to go out to that about once a week . 
a really nice place . 
amateurs but really quite good . 
but that was interesting . 
course go to london quite a lot and see shows down there . 
that sounds great . 
but other than that i just did n't have time to go to the movies . 
i rented a lot of videos . 
cause the closest movie theater was barry saint edmunds 
and who wants to drive twenty miles to go to the movies . 
probably some of them did . 
a lot of people did . 
but it would have to be a good show . 
it 's hard to know what the good movies are anymore . 
because sometimes the reviews you just ca n't go by . 
they have all these neat phrases like critically acclaimed . 
that 's what they . 
i see . 
it 's kind of like waterfront property or something if you 're two miles away from water . 
from love canal . 
water view . 
waterfront property here at love canal . 
but critically acclaimed . 
give me a break . 
there 's a lot of reasons why i do n't go to movies . 
and primarily i 'm probably going to upset you . 
but people who bring kids irritates the heck out of me . 
we 're energized . 
painting , 
interesting . 
the guy called me , 
when the computer called me , i thought that they were reading my mind . 
i 'm in the middle of going out for bids to have my house painted . 
painting is not hard to do as long as it 's not to the point of where it needs to be scraped and , 
and our house is not 
but it 's starting to bleed through and burn through because the paint 's real cheap 
and it 's just a hassle to go through it 
so i 'm looking for the easy way out . 
i know . 
is ? 
it 's easier to find painters , 
but you have to be aware of how messy they can get and are they going to put on a good two coats , and are they , going to caulk , 
are you talking , outside or inside ? 
exterior . 
exterior , 
interior 's not so bad because it 's more fun , 
outside you have high peeks , and those kind of things , 
it can be a real issue . 
right now our house does n't have to have the same kind of exterior painting there , 
it 's more trim because it has some of the old asbestos shingles , on the back and there 's some sort of stone or something in the front 
so there is n't as much wood that has to be painted . 
the problem is that the sun hits it . 
so preparing is a real problem , 
you 've got to prepare it well 
or else it will flake . 
they do n't put brick on the side of your house just to save money 
so they put up a quarter inch masonite , basically , 
and they painted it kind of 
so it 's real cheap . 
and i 've had thirteen hundred dollar bid and as low as five hundred and forty dollars 
. that 's quite a range . 
there 
and i 'm , 
i do n't want it all over the brick and windows 
so you have n't had any jobs painted in your house recently . 
we have done a little painting ourselves , 
we painted the bedroom within the last couple of months , 
that 's fun . 
and we have some more that need to be done , 
but the problem 
and when we bought it it had been vacant for a while because the family retired 
but the daughter was a real estate agent 
and she was selling it 
and it 's been lived in briefly by her before she bought her town house . 
so she told us that the house had been professionally painted recently . 
and it looked pretty good the interior walls all basically white , 
but they obviously had been done without to much wear afterward . 
the only problem was when we started having the movers move the furniture in we identified various rooms by pieces of masking tape on the door frames , 
when we took the masking tape off half the painted came with it . 
big long strips . 
so what had happened is that professional painters had not prepared the surface properly . 
and some still has to be redone . 
they just painted over varnished wood . 
actually it had been a repaint job . 
either they had painted with the wrong kind of paint over top 
because it was woodwork 
so it looked as if it had been painted , correctly with an enamel or something , 
either that or it had not been prepared underneath 
and it was greasy or something , 
it comes off in strips not even little bit . 
so we still have some of that trim work to do because we put it off all this time , 
we know what a job it 's going to be 
because you almost have to strip the whole thing , in order to do it again . 
i wish you good luck . 
thank you very much . 
thank you . 
how do you feel about our policy in latin america ? . 
i 'm all in favor of it , 
i think we 've been doing a pretty good job not taking advantage of the financial dependence that most of the countries have on us , 
we could direct the government even more than we have been . 
i do n't think we 've been doing too bad . 
do you think that 's right ? 
do you think , we should direct the government ? . 
i think that if it was n't for the united states government matching that the drug cartels or whatever would control most the central and latin america . 
just that money is power , 
it 's like his , mother came over 
i just get sorry feelings for people that their family came from there and how they feel about our intervention and their government and stuff like that , 
and he was all for it because it 's just like you say , 
there 's so many people there that get the kind of control that 's bad , 
and that their governments can become so corrupt 
they , should work their way , 
they should be able to work their self out of it 
or why intervene in another country 's problems and things like that . 
why should we be the ones that have to do it and things like that 
but i think just a lot of times if we do n't then that influence will affect our country too for one . 
and for two that it does help . 
i think the people in those country do want our help . the people that are under conditions that are not favorable to their rights . 
but i wish we did n't have to . 
even if a country chooses a government that 's not exactly the kind of government that we have or as in complete opposition to it , at least it 's their choice , as long , 
it is a government that stays in power , that can stay in power , 
but it seems like most of them do n't . 
sometimes that 's america doing that too , 
we fall out of agreements with certain leaders 
and then amazingly enough the country starts turning against our leader . 
america starts talking then about removing bases and whatnot and , stuff like that , and people . 
or government aids and stuff . 
i think that has a lot of things to , 
i mean , 
i 'm really wondering whether that 's going it settle down or not , 
because on one hand you have the , soviet government , of course , mistreating a lot of the slovak countries 
they were feeding us , 
so i do n't know really what 's going to happen . 
but we 're not intervening in that , 
put it this way , 
i think , 
i think the people are , revolting themselves , 
and we 're allowing , it to happen . 
i agree with that . 
i agree that communication has , become so much more widespread and worldwide that people are realizing we do n't have it so good 
and let 's stand up 
this is ridiculous 
we 're living , with these kind of conditions in a world that 's advancing as fast as it is 
i think people are just saying , we do n't want anywhere of this . 
i think central america has always been one of those places where people are more passive where it 's always the minority that are trying to make the country better . 
i guess i do in a way , 
sometimes i think a religion has a lot to do with that . 
and i think the catholic religion itself was such a dominant factor , as far as keeping the people down , so to speak , 
i thought , it was the other way around . 
they were always having to meet in the catacombs and all this , 
but i do n't agree with that because the catholic religion , as far as through the ages has been the rule , so to speak . 
they are the ones that set a lot of the rules 
and they are the ones that do keep the people down , 
when you , i think that keeps people in sort of line . 
i do n't quite understand that . 
do they even understand what 's being said ? 
when it use to be latin . 
which it 's not that way now 
but i think that it 's just latin countries are slower in coming around . 
they actually understood , 
it is in america where it was hard 
latin is very , very , very close to spanish . 
they still did n't understand it though , i do n't think , 
because i descend from that . 
and i do n't understand latin 
and i 'm of spanish descent . 
so i just think that has something to do with why latinos tend to be the more meek , , 
not stand up for their rights as much . 
they 're not really sure of what they are . i do n't think . 
i never really thought of , it that way . 
how , can you contrast the europeans and their vocalism on their rights to the people in latin america . 
why are they not as vocal 
or why do they not stand up , so to speak , for their rights ? 
i do n't know , 
could be the economic still . 
the poverty level is certainly much worse in the latin american countries . 
you can say that about africa too . 
i think it has something to do with the poverty level because africa is certainly not a catholic country , 
i do n't , agree with that . 
i do n't agree , 
because i think that they are pretty vocal about it in , africa . 
i think they 've made a lot more chances . 
they 're very vocal . 
in south africa , 
in south africa i think they are , 
so , what 's the difference ? 
idi amin was in power for so long . 
so what makes the difference between south africa and rest of africa ? 
racial , i think , 
or like you say , maybe communication of knowing that , up in other english colonies , or previous english colonies , everything is equal and yet down there it 's not , 
i think communication does have a lot to do with it in education , maybe . 
i do n't know about education 
because the black community is still not very educated down there . 
so , i think it is communication , 
it 's just oopsy . 
i think it maybe has a lot to do with education 
because you look at the european countries , 
i think they tend to be more educated , much more , educated than africa or the latin american countries . 
that 's true . 
actually i 've always wondered how the education system works in the russian countries , the republics . 
i know that russia , they 're comparably better educated than we are , in our country . 
that 's good , in a way . 
something we compete with . 
and i 've been sort of disappointed that they say literacy rate has gone down , 
that 's sort of upsetting , to think that we 're richer and yet everybody is intellectually poorer . 
in our country ? 
in our country , 
that is really upsetting 
good education is really still free . 
that 's just it though , good education . 
is it good education ? 
it may be free 
but is it good education 
and that 's just it 
are we willing to pay for it , 
a lot of people bitch and moan about the taxes and all 
but are they willing to , pay for quality education ? 
and yet people get very frightened when they see the japanese moving in and the russians moving in certain areas of technology that we use to dominate 
and it 's like they 're educating their people to higher degrees than we do . 
so , you 're going to have to expect it . 
are you willing to compromise a little and take some of that money out of your pocket and pay for good quality education . 
so , i do n't know . 
how are you ? 
i 'm doing fine . 
where you from ? 
i 'm from new england . 
massachusetts . 
i 'm from berkeley , california . 
this is quite a long distance . 
it certainly is . 
do you have any pets ? 
use too . 
but none right now . 
how come you do n't have any now ? 
you get tired of them ? 
i live in an apartment building 
and , it 's just not feasible . 
i 'd love to have a dog . 
i 've got a little doggy that i 've had quite a long time . 
in fact , she just turned sixteen years old new year 's eve . 
i beg your pardon ? 
what is she ? 
she 's a poodle . 
a toy poodle 
i got my mom a teacup little mutt , not too long ago . 
this is a little bigger than a teacup . 
and it 's funny how i , acquired this animal . 
when i was married , my ex-wife had said that she had a friend who had a little puppy . that the woman needed someone to baby-sit 
and this is what she had told the kids 
and she even told me that . 
and after the two week period was up she then informed me that the woman no longer wanted the little puppy and wanted to know if we wanted to keep it . 
after you had an animal for a couple of weeks you become attached to it . 
for sure . 
so , i 've had this dog now for sixteen years 
and she 's been a lot of company . 
she 's however , getting a little old 
and things are starting to fail . 
i live alone now 
and she stays in the house all day while i go to work 
and she 's been holding herself pretty well . up until recently where she 's been having accidents in the house because she either is losing control or she forgets where she is 
and i find a little present on the floor sometimes when i come home . 
but she 's usually pretty good . 
it 's , uh , teacup 
and it 's made such a difference for her . 
the way my mom 's presence countenance is , just for having a puppy 
she 's had it for three years now . 
possibly four . 
but it 's really made such a difference for her . 
i 'm a disabled person 
so i 'm unable to , really take care of a pet 
and if that were n't so , i would certainly have one . 
it frustrates me sometimes not being able to have a dog 
you might want to get yourself an animal that does n't require much attention . like a cat . 
i typically am not a cat person . 
i have a friend that has on occasion brought her cat over for me to keep from time to time . 
and this cat is like no other cat i have ever seen . 
and it would sleep on my chest . 
it 's just a great cat , 
my personal preference is a dog . 
i do n't know that i would ever want a cat . 
i like cats . 
i just would n't want to own one . 
they 're affectionate 
you do n't own cats . 
i do n't know , 
i ca n't seem to communicate with a cat like i can with my dog . 
they own you or , grant you with their presence . 
we 're supposed to appreciate them . 
when i come home in the evenings , my dog greets me at the door . 
i do n't know that a cat would do that . 
i used to have , a cat that could read me better than any human being in my life . 
i could just walk in the door 
and she knew whether to quietly come up to me or to just run and knock me over . 
she really could pick up on my mood the way i walked in the door . 
it was uncanny . 
i think in a way we 're able to read each other pretty well because she knows when i 'm upset and i know when she 's not feeling good too . 
i know she 's not doing it on purpose . 
when she was younger , she used to do that to get even with me , 
and some people might not believe that 
but , i do . 
if i put her in a room all by herself and close the door and leave her there for a few hours because i was going out . she would break something or rip up the carpet or do something just to let me know that she was unhappy with what i did . 
i had that cat that i mentioned , alfie . 
the first thing you do is you get up and you feed this cat something and you make sure that it can get to its litter box . 
for some reason during the night , the door was not quite wide enough for it to get through 
and the next morning when my roommate got up and , did not feed it right away , it decided that it was going to protest . 
and so it jumped up on my bed and anointed my blanket , for me . looking at me eye to eye , all the time while it was doing it . 
have i got your attention now ? 
animals have a way of talking . 
alfie did . 
i tell you 
i do n't know that i 'd trade my dog in for the world . 
it was about two years ago she got sick on me 
and i took her to the vet 's because she was n't eating and , she was n't able to jump . 
she lost all her activity 
and she stayed there for one day 
and the doctor called me up and said she had a low white cell count and that she was dying and suggested that i take her to a animal hospital . 
so i took his suggestion 
and i took the dog to the dog hospital there 
and they said they 'd keep her there for three days . 
she ended . 
it cost me over five hundred dollars . 
plus the vet sent me a bill for what he did 
then she recouped . 
she was okay for a couple of years . 
and then she got sick on me again 
and i brought her to a different vet this time 
and i told the vet what medication i had given her and everything . 
and he gave me the same medication that i gave her the last time 
and she was okay 
and she 's been okay every since . 
it 's been about two years now . 
that 's great , 
it really is . 
i 'm glad that she was able to pull out of it that way and so cheaply the second time . 
the problem is if someone would have came up to me and said it 's going to cost you five hundred dollars to keep your dog alive . what do you want to do ? i probably would have had second thoughts . 
of course , you would . 
but what they do is they say , it 's going to cost twenty dollars for tests and forty dollars for this 
and it creeps up on you . 
you do n't know what it 's going to until it 's all over . 
and the cat got sick . 
so she took the cat to the vet 
and she had the cat there for two days 
and then the cat died . 
so the doctor had called her up and said your cat died 
and you owe me this bill , 
and by the way , do you want me to bury the cat . 
so , it cost her three hundred dollars , 
and she did n't get the cat back . 
so 
they had to pay for all the medical bills that the cat ran up plus the burial expenses . 
and she just brought the cat in because he was n't feeling good . 
so that was kind of a surprise 
you kind of wonder what really happened . 
they claimed they did the best that they could have 
and then the cat died . 
i 'm looking for another cat for them . 
i 've got a little kitten that 's still just being born right now . 
so another five or six weeks i 'll be bringing the little kitten over to my folks . 
that will make their day . 
i think it will 
because they 're both in their seventies . and the cat although it 's a little bit of work for them sometimes , it turns out to be a pleasant experience for them . 
i think they enjoy that . 
only work initially . 
for cats anyway . 
listen 
it 's been a pleasure talking to you . 
the same here . 
and you take care . 
maybe we 'll talk again sometimes . 
what is that sound ? 
that 's my buzzer at the door . 
i 'll let you go . 
thank you . 
do you believe only fifty percent of the people actually vote ? 
i think it 's somewhere really close to that cause i think a lot of people believe that their one little vote is not going to make that much difference . 
and they really do n't listen to any of the issues anymore . 
because they feel like so many of the politicians are crooked ? 
and so they figure why go out and vote . 
they 're going to do what they want to do . 
they 're corrupt anyway . 
and i think one of the good ways of solving that is everybody likes to come to a party so have a voting party in communities and have the issues there and then everybody go vote together and then maybe come back over and have brunch or something . 
that 's the only , thing that i can figure out because i 've heard so many people say i 'm not voting on that one , 
i 'm going to go fishing today . 
or it wo n't make any difference if i do n't vote 
and i think it does . 
we vote every time . 
there 's no question 
it does make a difference . 
so far , as having a party and then all voting when you have different precincts you would have to have a party in every precinct . 
because people have to vote in different areas 
and not everyone votes at the same place . 
i , personally , think that we need to do more along the education lines in the schools with the idea of the value of voting and the purpose of voting and that one vote does make a difference . 
and maybe let them have some mock elections and stuff and vote for different people in their classes and start really young . 
that 's a real good idea . 
and they are doing that in a number of schools . 
however , probably not enough of them country wide . 
but it 's going to take at least a whole generation of people to get across the idea of voting . 
how to say to it and what have you . 
perhaps we 'll finally get the youth weaned off of it . 
but i spent thirty-four years in education here in the dayton area 
and in nineteen fifty-one the police were telling us about the drug dealers outside the school and how they were just giving away their marijuana , giving away their heroin and what have you , to get them started . 
and that was in fifty-one . 
that 's forty years ago that it was already a problem . 
so it 's now to the forefront 
and people are finally taking some action against it . 
and , we 've neglected the value of voting . and what it really means to vote 
and we also do n't make the issues perhaps in language that people fully understand them . 
i do n't know how it is up there 
but down here , louisiana has a bad reputation for their politicians and all . 
i 'm sure you heard about some of ours . 
it 's like they 're turned off on voting . 
we 're going to have a block party . 
everybody 's going to get together . 
we 're going to discuss the different issues and stuff 
and then we 're going to go and vote . 
we 're going to go vote 
maybe they could give something 
the top neighborhood , if you had a hundred percent in your neighborhood or something like that . 
it could be a sign that they would put down at the end of your block or anything like that 
but it 's really bad here . 
to me it is . 
it seems like people just do n't care anymore . 
they say , it do n't make any difference . 
one crook is as good as the other one . 
and they do n't bother to listen to what any of them have to say . 
we go vote every time . 
i do n't care how small the ballot is if there 's one thing , if there 's one issue , 
because the way i feel is if i do n't vote , then i do n't have any reason , to gripe . 
to complain about it , 
and i hear so many people saying i wish this would change , 
i wish that 
but they did n't go vote . 
that 's right . 
and like you said , if they would start when little kids and start letting them vote and learn how to vote and all . and the importance of it because , if you do n't vote for your friend over here your friend 's not going to have a chance . 
that 's right . 
he needs your vote 
just like he needs everybody else 's . 
then they had the voting machines 
and you voted for cheerleaders and different things like that 
but they should start that a lot earlier . 
it 's the same way with everything in education though . 
it should begin right down in the first grade . 
and your very best teachers in my estimation should be first , second or third grade . so that the children develop good learning patterns 
and you have some success and want to go on learning and continue learning and not wait until they 're in high school 
and then it 's too late to try to change them around at that point . 
but everything should be started on the lower levels 
and certainly if the youngsters had that opportunity that they understood that the principles of the country were established so that everyone would have a say and everyone would have a vote and what that vote meant 
but you 're right from the standpoint that people do have a negative attitude towards politicians . 
and perhaps it 's because our campaigns have become so terribly expensive to run that only the most wealthy can do so . 
and they 're not always the best person for the job . 
but they have the money to be able to do it . 
so that there are a lot of problems along that line also . 
a good idea for the young kids like that too , is to have a mock one . 
and this candidate tells you some things that are going to happen 
and this candidate tells you some things . 
then the kids in that class , they are not going to let them vote this time 
but they have to do whatever these people , whichever one the other people elect do . 
if they did something like that and started kids out real young and showed them , now you 're not going to get to vote 
but you 're going to have to do what that person says , 
they would understand probably by the time they were in high school , 
they 'd be ready to vote . 
that 's right . 
and i think that 's an excellent idea . 
they would put them to realize that they 're going to have to do what someone else says even though they did n't vote for it . and that maybe they need to think twice about voting . 
some people object during primaries 
and you do that in the primary . 
and i do n't know that a lot of people vote in primaries for that very reason . 
they can declare anything they want 
and they can actually rig it . 
if they really wanted to vote republican , they could go in the primary and say they were voting democrat and then stack the ballot for someone that perhaps the republican could beat . 
but it 's just a sad situation 
and i do think more needs to be done along that line to help to teach everyone , more about what is going on with voting and with nonvoting . so that they 're making some more intelligent decisions . 
i think that sounds great . 
it 's going to take a whole generation of my feeling before that 's going to be accomplished . 
they 'd have to start when they 're real young . 
that 's right . 
it would have to be a child that is just coming into school . 
because i 'll tell you another thing too now . 
the first time i voted , i never voted in high school because there was never anyone that showed us how to use the voting machines , 
this sounds dumb , 
but i did not know how to use those voting machines 
and nobody ever showed us or anything 
so i did n't vote because anybody that went in there and they asked a question , all the other kids laughed at them . 
they thought that was funny . 
she do n't even know how , . 
so there was n't any way i was going to go in there and vote . 
and it took such courage you would n't believe to go vote the first time because i was waiting for somebody to laugh at me because i did n't know how to work the machines . 
it is . 
that 's bad . 
and i was out of school . 
i was a married person . 
and i did n't know how to work the machine . 
and it really scared me , really bad . because i thought all these people are going to laugh at me because i do n't know how to work this machine . 
where if they 'd had a class or something or , said this is the way , 
just the opportunity to try the voting machines , 
it 's , this is the way it 's going to be . 
and my son was exactly the same way that i was 
and i did n't realize it until his senior year . 
i asked him something about who did you vote for , for , cheerleader ? 
and he said , i did n't go vote . 
he said , there 's no way i 'm getting in that machine . 
then i realized it 
so when we went and voted the next time , i asked the lady , 
i said i want my son to come in with me 
and she said why . 
he 'll have to come back out . 
i said because i want him to know how to use one of these 
and i said , i wo n't turn any of the buttons down 
but i want to show him how to use it so that he 'll be able to vote . 
so he went in 
and now he 's a registered voter . 
good . 
but he would not vote before then . 
and i think that 's bad . 
sure it is . 
here i was . 
and even , of course there 's a lot of years between the two of us , 
do you have any pets ? 
i have three cats and a dog . 
sound like us , 
go ahead . 
we just got the dog less than a year ago 
so , he 's still a puppy . 
what kind is it ? 
he 's a mixed breed , 
he 's part collie , part shepherd , and part chow . more collie and shepherd than chow , 
the only chow he 's got is his tongue . 
he 's got a blue tongue ? 
he 's got little spots on them . 
we have two chows and , , a miniature schnauzer , and recently added , a guinea pig , , which was n't by my choice , 
but i was out ruled , 
but i just love them to death . 
was the guinea pig for your child ? 
daughter , 
as if the dogs were n't enough , had to have , a guinea pig , 
so , anyway she enjoys her though , 
so that 's what matters . 
but our chows , we 've had them right around six maybe seven years 
they 're registered 
and we 've been breeding them . 
she 's had about four or five litters . 
my husband 's always wanted a chow 
but i 'm kind of concerned about having cats , and how they socialize with cats . which is one of the reasons why we got a mixed breed . 
because we thought they would socialize easier , 
and so far he 's bitten ten people . 
and the people that he got the from , used to have cats 
and they no longer have any other cats . 
it 's telling 
we had a cat when we first married , 
we had the cat first , 
and then we got the chow . 
and , , bringing them in as puppies they got along just fabulous with her . 
and you would think that they were all dogs the way she would prance around them and paw at their face 
and they 'd just play 
and they never harmed her . 
so they got along great , 
i do n't know how it would be bringing in cat to a full grown dog . 
i would n't want to bring a cat into a full grown dog , 
but i would n't feel hesitant about bringing a puppy in , to adult cats , 
i think they would socialize easier . 
i think , so , too . 
how old is your child ? 
five . 
five ? 
she 's a real . 
so , you had the dogs before you had the baby ? 
and i was , , not really concerned about them harming her , 
i think a lot of that , that we hear all the time is how you bring them up . 
and ours are real friendly , 
they 're protective , 
but they 're very friendly , and lovable , 
you think they 're lapdogs , 
they 'll just come jump on your lap and want to have their bellies rubbed and everything 
what color are they ? 
the female 's red 
and the male is black . 
i bet the black one 's pretty . 
he 's a big old thing . 
and i was concerned about the female mainly , 
and as luck had it she had puppies the same week my daughter was born , 
about your baby . 
i think that really helped my daughter since she has been playing with them 
and they let her tug their hair and get on their back or whatever 
and she 's grown up with them and loves them to death 
and they love her , 
i think it 's good for kids to grow up around pets , as long as they do n't have any allergies to them or anything . 
i do , too . 
but i think it really helps them to understand when they go to other people 's houses 
and they have pets , 
they . 
that or , the other extreme , 
they 're terrified of them 
and i hate that , 
and they should n't be , 
some maybe 
but , our miniature schnauzer , she 's just a little hyper thing and just prances around and jumps all over everybody acting silly , 
and a lot of kids are scared of that . which i understand because she is a lot of movement and everything 
but when she calms down they 're so scared of her 
that bothers me because she 's the friendliest thing , 
she would n't harm them at all 
and that 's mainly people that have never had pets around their children , 
so , i think it 's a good idea to have them . 
in the past , we 've had birds , too like cockatoos . and parrots and , the big white , birds with the orange crest on top . 
the cockatoos , are those the big ones ? 
we 've had those , 
and those are neat , 
they 're messy , very messy and loud . 
are they ? 
a lot louder than a dog , 
a dog you can tell , stop barking or whatever . 
but the birds , it 's hard to keep them from squawking or whatever 
but they were neat , enjoyable animals to have . 
we 've thought about getting an aquarium , partly for the cats , 
i think the cats would really enjoy it , 
with a lid , . 
of course , , 
and they 're so , expensive to start up . 
they are , 
the saltwater fish have so much more color 
and they 're so , much more beautiful , 
i know they are . 
most of them really are n't that pretty , 
i really do n't care much for them . 
i do n't blame you there , 
i do n't know , 
those fish are just beautiful . 
like you have a little bit of ocean with you or something . 
rather than just little fish . 
my daughter had a little goldfish , about a year or two ago 
and it finally died 
and that was neat , 
she ca n't play with it , 
you can just look at it . 
you ca n't roll around and tussle around with it like you can a dog or a cat 
i would n't dare have a goldfish here because , it would probably be in a small bowl 
and then my cats would knock it over . 
i have to be real careful about where i put things , 
if the cats will jump up on things and knock things over all the time , 
they 're always up where they 're not supposed to be . 
and that 's hard . 
that 's just like kids , 
they know that they 're not supposed to do it , 
but they 're going to do it anyway because they know they 're not supposed to . 
that 's right 
and they 're so , independent . 
i love having them for that reason . 
and until we got the dog it was real easy to go to town for three day weekend or whatever , 
and now , it 's like a major production , trying to find somebody to take care of the dog while you 're gone . 
that 's right , 
that is hard . 
we knew it , 
but we never even thought that when we got the dog 
we just saw him , 
he 's so , cute , 
let 's take him home . 
and then the first weekend we had him we were in a two bedroom apartment , 
and my husband went out of town , and left me with the brand new puppy , 
fun . 
and i had to work twelve hours that day , 
and so , i left the dog locked in the bedroom 
and i put paper all over the floor . 
when i came home , i opened the door 
and there were chunks of carpet , padding everything , all over the place 
and he had tried to dig his way out from underneath the door , 
i guess you did n't get your deposit back , did you ? 
i had the carpet fixed , 
i did n't even tell the apartment manager , who got it . 
bless your heart . 
but that was my first real experience with a puppy 
when we had our family dog growing up i was eleven or twelve when we first got him , 
and i was n't really involved in the paper training , and teaching him commands and stuff 
so , this was , to me , a whole new experience . 
it is . 
only it was n't like cats at all . 
i wish it was . 
i wish they were in that instinct . 
but they do n't . 
our only problem with our schnauzer , she 's an indoor dog , most of the time , 
and we found , she 's right at a year 
and we finally got her house trained and everything , 
her only problem is trash . 
if you do not pick the trash up the container , and put it on a table or chair or something , she 'll knock it over , 
i do n't care how full she is , 
so , it 's not like she 's hungry , 
it 's just she wants to get into trouble . 
my cats do that if i through anything away that 's any kind of meat or anything , like that , 
anything that they think is good , 
they 'll get into the trash , 
and then it does n't matter where you put it and where you hide it , 
and how tight you have the lid down on it , 
they 'll get into it . 
i 've come home many a days from work to find trash all over the kitchen floor . 
i hate that . 
and the cat 's just looking at me like , sorry . 
you should n't have left it there . 
i could n't help myself . 
i just hate that when she does that , 
and she knows it 's wrong , 
you 'll walk in the door 
and she 'll cower and go hide under the table . 
so , she knows she does wrong . 
but she continues to do it , 
he 's actually not really a puppy anymore 
he 's sixteen months old , 
but he 's still chewing . 
is he ? 
who is your favorite football team ? 
guess . 
i bet you ca n't guess . 
you got it . 
and i want to tell you something . 
what 's that ? 
they 're going to go somewhere pretty shortly . 
i think they are because they 're getting better every year . 
ca n't , call them the new orleans ain'ts any more . 
i do n't think so . 
we went to the playoffs . 
i 'm a buffalo bills fan . from a long time ago . 
i like them , too . 
so , it 's good to see the bills doing so well now 
they are . 
they are doing a whole bunch better . 
who 's , their quarterback ? 
what 's that ? 
who 's their quarterback ? 
jim kelly . 
i like to watch them , too . 
i like to watch almost all the football 
but of course , i watch every saints game that i can watch . 
but i think they 're really going to do good because it seems like they 're finally all coming together . 
if they would just quit blowing it . 
the n f l draft really seems to be doing its job 
because , got teams like buffalo who certainly were n't a powerhouse ten years ago . 
now , they 've been able to get some good players and come around 
new orleans the same story 
and a few years ago denver was a powerhouse 
and then they were n't getting the draft picks 
so it seems to be moving around to new orleans ' benefit , 
look at the cowboys . 
they 're hurting . 
really bad . 
but they got so much bad publicity , too . 
and i think that hurt a lot of people even wanting to play on their team . 
firing tom landry and hiring jimmy johnson 
does n't give you much respect for their team at all . 
and just because they had a couple of bad seasons . 
and you ca n't even attribute those bad seasons to bad coaching . 
his players were constantly getting kicked off the team because of drugs , because of messing with young children 
and it was just one thing right after the other , with them . 
and had a lot of trouble with injuries , too . 
he 'd never seem to be able to keep his guys healthy . 
and then even eric dickerson left , the team , 
you 're right . 
people were jumping ship right and left . 
and , i do n't know , 
that sounds to me more like the front office problem than coaching problem , 
but then the team was sold . 
but that jimmy johnson came in , too , though , 
when he bought the team and all it just seemed like he just decided this is the way it 's going to be 
and it was bad . 
it really was . 
to me it was like it 's going to take them quite a while to rebuild 
because anything that tom landry wanted or had , he was going to change it . 
that 's the way i felt about it . 
but , i tell you what , 
if new orleans ever gets a quarterback is n't nobody going to beat us . 
there ai n't nobody going to beat us then . 
because look how good we did without a quarterback this year . 
i know . 
who was the quarterback ? 
they , had quite a few quarterbacks if you think about it . , 
i ca n't even think of who the new orleans quarterback , is . 
fourcade was for a while . 
and then i ca n't remember that guy 's name , the one that held out for the money 
and he was across the river . 
i ca n't think of his name now , 
but really we did n't have a quarterback . 
that , was the whole problem . 
we had one guy that could n't throw 
and we had one guy that could n't run . 
and , it was just bedlam . 
we really did n't have a quarterback . 
it was defense won all the games . 
were they able to draft anybody this year ? 
i do n't know 
because they gave away a lot of their drafts . for different people for other places . 
so , i do n't know . 
i had n't heard whether they have a new one or not . 
when is the , n f l draft 
has the n f l draft even gone yet ? 
not yet . 
but i do n't know whether they have one of the first choices of somebody , 
that would be real good . 
everybody gets in draft . 
but , i do n't know whether they 'll be far enough up where they can do any good . 
or even making the playoffs 
so that does n't help you in the draft . 
but really and truly we just do n't have a quarterback , 
that 's all there is to it . 
but , the players and stuff , they finally quit giving away the really good players and started keeping them too . 
you remember when archie manning was a quarterback ? 
that was a few years ago . 
he was good . 
but every time we 'd get a real good player they 'd treat him bad . 
and , of course , we had a different coach then , too . 
but they 'd treat him bad 
and then he 'd leave . 
or either they 'd trade him off to somebody else for two of these nobodies . 
and it was weird . 
if you were good let 's do n't have you on our team . 
but this year they had all good players except for the quarterback . 
i ca n't remember whether we played three or four quarterbacks , 
but all of them were bad . 
they were terrible . 
they could not pitch . 
they could n't even take handoffs . 
it was , terrible . 
but all the other places our defense was unbelievable . 
it 's one thing , 
buffalo 's , lucky though to have jim kelly than , 
did you get to watch any of their games ? 
now he 's the number one rated quarterback in the n f l . i think , 
i 'm pretty sure he was this past season . 
and then with the defense , with bruce smith there at linebacker there , they 've got a very well rounded team 
and it seems that they 've gotten over their bickering and their fighting as problems they had in the past 
and now they 're really playing good together as a team . 
. do you watch it every sunday ? 
when i can . 
i 'm a musician 
this is just something on the side 
and the band i play in , we tend to rehearse quite a bit on sundays . 
did you ever get to watch any of the new orleans games ? 
i 'd have to confess i do n't really scope out the new orleans games , per se . 
i 've lived in so many places . 
i 've lived in denver 
but i do n't like the broncos . 
there 's , no love for the broncos . 
i was born in buffalo 
and i lived outside of boston for five years 
and then my family lives in philadelphia now 
teams in your area . 
and i lived in detroit , too . 
first of all , first and foremost the bills games i want to see . 
and then i 'll normally check out the eagles or the patriots 
and , patriots were so depressing this last year that , i kind of gave up on them . 
i know it . 
but first and foremost the bills . 
i got to go to a bills game this year , which was fun . 
it was the bills , eagles game , which appropriately enough fortunately , the bills won . 
that 's neat . 
and it was good weather . 
we beat buffalo in , third of december ? 
and , it was sunny and forty-five degrees . 
so , we could n't a done much better than that in buffalo . 
because usually it 's snowing . 
ice and rain and everything . 
but , i tell you what , 
if you get to watch some of these , 
i do n't know how it will be this year , 
but these games go right down to the wire . 
it was like i was sitting on the edge of my chair going . 
i ca n't remember . 
it was right close to when we was going to find out if we was going to get to be in the playoffs , or not . 
so , we 're watching the game . 
the other team got the ball 
and we got the ball back . 
that 's the way it was . 
and they had to kick . to know whether we were going to win the game or lose a game because they got one point ahead of us . 
so we had to sit there , 
and they cut the show off and started showing us another football game . 
we did not get to see the end of the game . 
you talk about people calling in . 
it was wild . 
here everybody is sitting on the edge of their chair , 
and then they changed the game . 
and they changed it and gave us another game in the middle of another one that was going on . 
cut us off right there the last few seconds . 
it was the network . 
because it was funny . 
everybody was furious . 
i was so mad i got up and went and called , 
i could n't believe that . 
but , almost every game that i watched it would come right down to the end , 
we would be ahead , 
but then in the fourth quarter they 'd let them get up there either with them or right ahead of them . 
and it 'd come right down to the end 
and either we made it 
or we did n't . 
and it was something else . 
if we had a quarterback this year we would have went to the super bowl . 
there 's no question about it , because everybody was playing good together except the quarterbacks . 
and the quarterbacks just did n't do anything . 
that 's the guy that counts . 
but , maybe we 'll get your guy . 
i do n't think jim kelly is about to be swayed away from the bills any time . 
all set . 
do you want to start ? 
i can go ahead and start , 
go ahead . 
in dallas there 's definitely a crime problem , 
i know it 's worse in the larger cities . 
it 's kind of a concern for me , 
in fact , at the moment i 'm thinking of possibly moving to a new apartment 
i am single and female , 
you definitely are going to worry about the location , and accessibility of people to be able to break in . 
i live on a third floor now , 
but , i 'm real concerned that i do n't want to be on a first floor where you can have problems with things like that , 
do they have many buildings that have security there ? 
some buildings do , 
it depends on the location . 
the area i live in right now , is real good as far as crime rate is concerned 
and we do n't have anything at all , 
no burglar alarms , no guards . 
some places do have guard gates that you have to get through , or electronic access gates and things like that . 
i went to dallas when i worked for t i in abilene 
and i 'm a little familiar with the city area , forest lane and through that , off the freeway . 
and it did n't seem like it was that congested in that part . 
because to me where we live out here in the north east , there are a lot of buildings very close to each other , 
and the cities are very populated with tenement housing , where there are more than one family in a house . 
and they 're going to the big cities . 
it makes it very difficult . 
it really does , 
and i 've seen the same thing that you 're talking about much more crime than ever before . 
and i do n't know , 
a lot of younger people into more violent crimes . 
that 's really sad , 
you got young boys or girls , at fourteen or twelve years old that are committing murders 
and , no remorse , what so ever . 
there 's a lot of that going on in dallas , too . 
it 's really sad . 
it is 
and i do n't know if it 's the family thing where they 're not bonding anymore , where mothers are working all the time and , the kids are n't getting the attention that they need , or the television . 
and i really think that we 're falling by the wayside with not incarcerating these people . 
i agree . 
i think that people are getting off too easy . 
they 're getting paroled too easily . 
they 're just getting put on probation or something , because the prisons do n't have enough room 
so they get lighter sentences , 
and some of those people , they do n't deserve to be let loose . 
in fact on the news last night we were watching this man who lost his ten year old daughter . 
he ran out to the store for a few minutes 
and he had left her home alone . 
ten years old , 
she 's old enough to be alone for a few minutes . 
and while he was gone , he had went looking for a job and stopped at the store , 
that 's what it was . 
and someone who was in the neighborhood cleaning carpets , these two men , went in , raped the girl , murdered her , and the whole bit . 
and one of the men got seventeen years 
and the other one was in for life imprisonment . 
the one that was in for the seventeen years , actually served seven , 
and he 's out . 
that 's terrible . 
and the man said , that if it were n't for the fact that he would go to jail , that he would eliminate this person himself . and then go to mcdonalds and have a hamburger and not think a thing about it . 
i should n't say innocent , because i mean , actually if they commit a crime that they 're in the same circumstances 
the reasons that they 're doing it compared to the reason someone else is in jail for it it 's two different things . 
sometimes when you lose someone that you really love , you do some crazy things 
i do n't know , 
it 's a little more understandable under the circumstances , i guess . 
i like the idea that if someone is from a foreign country , and they come to this country and commit , a crime that irregardless of whether they have already become a citizen or anything , they should be immediately deported . 
especially if they 're found guilty of the crime . 
once they have been arrested 
and if they know beyond a shadow of a doubt , these people are guilty . 
that 's it , 
we do n't take care of them , 
we do n't support them , 
nothing , 
they go right back where they came from . 
we have enough problems with overcrowding in the jails as it is . 
so let their country take care of it . 
i guess we do have a lot of people come in from mexico , that cause problems , 
but they 're , so close , 
i do n't consider mexican people in the same category with especially people who come from cultures that do n't have the same kind of moral upbringing that we have . 
you take asian countries , or the eastern countries where women are in the background and the men are in the foreground , 
and it 's like they live back in where we came from two hundred years ago . 
we 've advanced beyond that , 
you know what i mean . 
it was amazing 
i went to the far east back in october to do some training for t i 
some of those countries were so safe , it was unreal . 
singapore is supposed to be very safe 
and i thought tokyo would be dangerous being such a huge large city with so many people , 
at the t i there , i said is there any area i should avoid . 
and the guy said let me ask another girl here 
and he turned and asked this girl , and said , can you think of any place where dana should n't go by herself , or anything . 
and she thought for a few minutes 
and she said , no . 
and he said is there any place you would n't go by yourself . 
she said , no . 
and they said , it is so safe there that you can leave your purse on the subway 
and somebody will turn it in 
and nothing will be missing . 
they said they can just about guarantee that there , that , that would happen if you did that . 
i thought , in america , if you left a purse on a subway , you would never see it again . 
you better believe it , 
you would n't even have to leave it , 
that 's true , 
it would get snatched right off your arm . 
that 's true . 
but i was thinking in dallas , if somebody asked me if there were places you would n't go by yourself at night , i 'd have to set them down for about five or ten minutes to list all the places out . 
i could n't believe that she could n't think of any place . 
that 's amazing , 
what 's the difference there , 
do you know ? 
i 'm not sure what it is there . 
i know what it is in singapore , is they have the death penalty 
and they really enforce it , 
i believe in the death penalty , 
i really do . 
for drugs they enforce the death penalty for that . 
they 're just , very , very tough , 
and i guess maybe that 's the way tokyo is too , or japan is too . 
they 're just very tough on criminals . 
i think that we 're too easy . 
and we take the , civil liberties stuff too far . 
people that are in prison we did n't put them there . 
they put themselves in that situation . 
we educate them , 
we feed them , 
we take care of them 
and they no sooner get out on the street 
and they 're back in again . 
i 'm not saying they 're all bad , 
but i think people who are guilty of really serious heinous crimes , do not deserve to be cared for for the rest of their lives . 
i think that they should be put away . 
and if they 're overcrowded they should n't have gotten theirself there in the first place . 
get rid of them . 
i think that that 's the whole key here . 
or , if they 're in there and they 've got seventeen years and they 're on good behavior , for every year they 're in they get so many less that they do n't serve the full penalty . 
i really think we 're going to far overboard with all of this . 
same with drunk drivers . 
i think it 's too easy for them . 
you have to set an example . 
you have to start somewhere . 
and i think that people know that they 're going to get a slap on the wrist , they might serve a little bit of time and that they 'll be out on the street again . 
an i feel bad for the policeman , because he 's out there every day facing these people . this craziness people with automatic weapons and all this other stuff and trying to do a job 
and let 's face it , 
what do they get paid . 
not much . 
twenty thousand dollars a year , if they 're lucky . 
i would n't do it for that . 
and especially not in some of these big cities , 
they 're up in the top five of cities that are getting policeman killed in the line of duty 
and that 's really sad . 
it is , 
it really is . 
and they 're the first ones that take the brunt of everything . 
and i 'm not saying that they 're all good either , because there 's good and bad in everything , 
but they have three strikes against them when they 're out there . 
because they 'll arrest someone and go through all that paperwork and writing a report and all this , and having all kinds of evidence 
and you have to even be careful how you arrest them , how you talk to them what they say , 
what kind of car are you thinking about buying next ? 
what do we currently have , 
i have a subaru g o x t . 
what year ? 
eighty-eight . 
i have a ninety honda civic , 
and i 'm ready to get rid of it . 
actually , 
it 's not pretty old . 
i had an eighty-eight that i really liked 
and it got wrecked , 
and so i bought a ninety because i really liked my eighty-eight 
and i 've had a lot of problems with this one , 
you think their quality control 's going down over there , kind of ? 
it 's kind of funny , 
i know a lot , 
i think we 're going to see that the quality that the japan carmakers had is slipping a little bit , while american carmakers are trying to get their , put together , 
it 's true , 
but that 's one reason 
i 've had no problems with my subaru , 
that 's one reason i went with it because subaru had a good reputation for low maintenance , 
honda does too , 
there 's no question 
i 've seen and i 've had friends that have eighty-one or eighty celicas , 
and those things just keep ticking . 
they can rack up a hundred fifty k on them , 
that 's true . 
and they 're still beating on them , 
that 's true . 
and it 's just amazing 
and they 're not making them like that now , , 
not at all . 
but they 're still definitely better than the american carmaker system . 
i definitely agree with you there , , because i had uh , ford t bird before i got my honda , 
and it was the worst car i 've ever owned , 
and that 's why i was so tickled with my honda 
it was just a wonderful car 
and then it got wrecked 
and i would n't even look at another car , 
i just went and bought a honda 
i did n't look around or anything 
i just said that this is what i want , , 
and i really have had a lot of problems with it , 
but i do n't know . 
i 'll probably hold on to it since it 's still under warranty 
but in the first twelve months that i owned it , it was in the shop an average of about once a month , , 
it was in the shop about twelve times the first twelve months . 
that 's a lot . 
it was , 
i was really disappointed because i was so , hyped up on honda , 
anyway , 
so , what 's your next purchase supposed to be ? 
i know this , 
if you had a choice of your car , what would you get ? 
this is going to sound really strange , , 
but i really like to have a mazda m p v van , , 
i really like those 
and i have kids , 
i 'm not sure i 'm real familiar with the body style on that . 
i do n't like the new style of the toyota van , and the new chevy lumina van , 
i do n't like those styles , 
the m p v is more just normal , , 
i do n't know how to explain , 
more of an old fashioned type . 
i 'm not sure how to explain it , 
it looks kind of like the chevy aerostar or arrow , 
what 
something like that , 
do you have a family ? 
i have a couple kids . 
that 's probably influenced maybe a little bit . 
but , i know that it 's got to have a radio , it 's got to have air conditioning , , 
i 'm sure you can relate to air conditioning . living in arizona , 
, and cruise control and tinted windows , that 's about it , . 
it 's got to have those things , 
otherwise , i do n't care . 
when i bought my car , it was right out of college 
and i always been looking for something sporty 
and i ended up getting basically something that i could afford . 
the only gripe i have is performance . 
a few girls that i 've gone out with , 've had mazda r x sevens and stuff 
and they 're pretty fun to drive , 
so , i think that 's what i 'm going to have to get next time around , 
i keep holding off 
and then i could upgrade now if i wanted to 
it 's just such a huge expense 
and , i 'm just going to keep holding off 
sports car . 
i 'd like to have a sports car too , 
but it 's not practical for me , 
are you still there ? 
there 's some kind of problems . 
are you still there ? 
something 's wrong . 
wonder what happened . 
i do n't know , 
it sounds funny though , does n't it ? 
it just depends , 
i know that 's what i want , 
but i do n't know if i 'll get myself to spend that kind of money , 
for a new r x seven or , a supra or something , you 're looking at twenty-five k or something 
at least , 
my ultimate car though , the one that i really want is , uh , five sixty or so , mercedes , 
i know , 
new cars are n't cheap anyway , 
maybe someday . 
we all have those kind of dreams too , do n't we ? 
you there ? 
this is strange . 
i think , something 's wrong with this . 
i hope it 's recording . 
you there ? 
it may be my phone , 
it 's the only car that says sporty and class , 
you 're right . 
at the other one my brother 's got a miata 
and those are fun . 
those are nice , 
they 're cute cars . 
he had a red miata , 
they came out with a european racing , green miata that 's a limited edition , 
they 're only going to make three or four thousand . 
so , he went out 
and he traded the other one in and got this one , 
i have n't seen those . 
but i have n't seen one yet either 
but supposedly they have some real wood built in to the clutch and all this and the steering wheel , 
so , it 's very authentic 
and there only is supposed to be limited edition 
no matter what it is , if it 's a limited edition , it 's usually worth something later on . 
i got off my pace or my cordless phone , 
anyway hope it 's not going bad , , 
it 's going to bump me out . 
but i think he only spent the low twentys 
so , i do n't know . 
i would have never figured that , 
i would have figured that to be a lot more than that for something that 's limited edition . 
i do n't know , 
i think the demand 's gone all , down a little bit . 
the prices are n't as high , 
and the miata was first introduced , 
and they were n't really that bad though when they were introduced were they ? 
the demand is so , high that they were going to retail them around thirteen standard , 
and you get your options , you 're looking at fifteen 
that 's true . 
but people were buying them for nineteen and twenty , 
and they may have gone down a little bit 
they 're still pretty much in demand . 
i think there 's another car coming in , 
it 's supposed to come out and compete with that miata , 
and i ca n't remember what i read about that 
i would think somebody would try to compete with that because it is very popular , 
it really is . 
have you seen the new dodge stealth ? the , real nice one . 
and the mitsubishi , three thousand g t , is the same . 
the mitsubishi is real nice looking too , 
that 's the same manufacturer 
those are nice . 
so , they just market them . 
but 
those are supposed to be very performance power 
big time . 
the expensive ones , 
they have a cheaper model too that you can get for about seventeen thousand , 
but those are pretty stripped , 
and there 's nothing , 
that one 's just more for looks , 
it does n't have really the performance that the expensive one does . 
but i 've seen one of those , 
i think they 're only around twenty-nine k . 
it 's not quite as nice for a little bit less . 
they 're not really that bad 
but i do n't know , 
like i said it 's still not practical for me . 
i have a hard time looking at cars like that because i think , there 's no way i can do that . 
i 'm being single 
and no other responsibilities for yourself , 
i 've been pretty happy , 
i , have n't tried to upgrade myself right now , 
i could get something nice and upgrade 
but i 'm consulting right now , 
i just made my first job hop about eight months ago , 
what kind of camping is there in texas ? 
there are quite a few state parks , 
and there 's a couple of national parks that you can camp at . 
most of them have pretty good facilities . 
i do n't know if the camping that i 've done is really roughing it without a whole lot of stuff . 
you do backpacking and the like ? 
done a little bit of that , mainly just camping out at the state parks , 
i 've been to a couple in texas 
and there 's some real nice ones in arkansas . 
i think arkansas has one of the best parks departments around . 
is the ozarks in arkansas ? 
part of them are . 
so , that 's probably a pretty nice place to go . 
they 've got real nice lake system , around their parks . 
one of them the gray it 's real nice there , 
a bunch of lakes around it , 
there 's a golf course and just a whole bunch of camping sites . 
what about you , 
i 've been camping for years , not on a regular basis 
but i first started camping out in the desert in california . and then sometimes in the mountains also in california 
and then i moved to north carolina 
and i did n't camp for a long time , 
and then i started to go camping again kind of in conjunction with white water rafting , 
so , i 'd go up somewhere and camp overnight and then do some rafting . 
and then maybe camp another night and drive home . 
and that was pretty good 
so , i went out and bought a whole bunch of camping gear 
and i still do it once in a while . 
i think we 've collected stuff off and on over the years . 
we did it we get about it . 
where is raleigh , in north carolina ? 
in terms of north , south i would say it 's , a little more towards the northern border of the state and pretty much in the eastern half of it . 
are you kind of away from the blue ridge mountains , 
an area . 
the blue ridge in virginia are closer to raleigh . 
they 're about three hours away if you go due north . 
the blue ridge in north carolina are much nicer 
and you can pick those up going west , 
but then you 're talking about six to eight hours . 
the way it works . 
but it 's a real nice place to go and camp , 
they probably just do n't spend as much money as a lot of other states might . 
my wife 's from the western part of virginia , 
we 've been down the parkway a lot , 
but i did n't know how much camping areas there were along there . 
i think there 's quite a few . 
i ca n't say i 've checked them all out though . 
what 's it like camping in the desert and california , 
that seems , like a challenge . 
it 's actually kind of incredible , 
it 's really , really nice . 
i like it better than almost anything i 've ever done . 
just the sky is so amazing . 
you really can probably count thousands of stars , 
and it 's just kind of nice . 
i think the desert has a rare kind of beauty which a lot of people do n't realize , 
they hear desert 
and they think of scorpions and snakes and sand and being real dry , and lack of water , 
course , it has all of those qualities 
but it also has a certain quality of beauty that you just do n't find anyway else except in a desert . 
so , it 's pretty nice . 
the movie , the doors , has some nice desert scenes , 
those guys all go camping out in the desert . 
of course , they drag a lot of drugs with them 
but the shots are pretty nice 
and it 's sort of like that , 
it 's just almost surreal , in some places . 
it 's very pleasant . 
are the temperatures real extreme there 
they can be , 
you sort of have to choose your season carefully and know what 's going to happen . 
i 've been camping in death valley , 
one does n't go in july . 
but it 's beautiful in february . 
it 's just beautiful . 
the days , get up into the high eighties maybe the nineties 
but it 's quite bearable 
and then the nights are reasonably warm sixties or seventies . 
it 's just great . 
it 's really very nice . 
i have a sister-in-law that lives up through new mexico and into colorado and the grand canyon area . 
i do n't know when i 'm going to get a chance to do that 
that would be pretty nice . 
i have been camping on the south rim the grand canyon . 
that 's okay . 
a lot of people like to go down and camp down inside , 
i was just too lazy that trip to do all that walking , especially with my gear . 
i 'll bet . 
that one thing you said about the stars is really true 
so it 's nice to get away . 
it 's just amazing , how much you miss . 
it , 
it , 
i do n't think i ever see the little dipper , 
you hear people talk about the little dipper . 
but i do n't think i ever see it except when i go get out of the city and go camping in the desert or in the mountains . 
otherwise it 's just too faint . 
i guess we 've talked as much as we need to on the subject . 
i think we fulfilled our obligation . 
thanks for calling , 
nice talking to you . 
it was good talking to you robert . 
what baseball team are you familiar with ? 
i 'm only a little bit familiar with the red sox because i lived up in boston for a while , 
come on , 
no texas rangers ? 
after that , if you asked me that i would n't have been able to tell you if that was football or baseball . 
i guess they paired two women together on this call for a reason which is something we can think about later 
but i understand a little bit about the texas rangers . 
i know george bush threw out the first pitch 
i heard a joke on the radio yesterday in regard that he did n't design the patriot missile system , 
and the radio 's kind of cruel , 
think , this chain that must have been on president bush to bounce the first pitch off the ground , 
how humiliating for a man to do that , any man . 
i do n't care if you 're president . 
but at the same time , i do n't know , 
it 's pretty far to throw that far . 
i could n't do it . 
i know 
but he 's a man 
come on , 
men know how to do that ? 
he 's supposed to be able to do that . 
i know 
so , i felt kind of sorry for him . 
that must have been hard on him because he 's just a person 
a major owner of the team here . 
i did n't know that . 
i thought he was the owner 
but it turns out my mom said that he 's part owner 
but he must own the biggest chunk 
because that 's all you hear about is , about neal bush . 
i even know his name because he 's on the news a lot , 
and i never had to watch the news not like some people hour and a half a day or anything . 
my husband 's french 
it 's incentive , 
but speaking of bush , that had a story where he went to visit some little elementary school students , and stuff . 
i saw that . 
did you see that , where the guy asked him for proof of who he was , 
i know 
and see a credit card . 
you 're not president bush . 
i know 
and he said 
it does so fast , 
i heard it on the radio . 
i heard the audio portion on the radio in the car 
but i did n't see it 
it was so funny to see , 
it was a really cute little kid too . 
that 's about my extent about baseball , 
i do n't know , that much about it . 
i can tell you , that the mets opened two days ago , 
because my brother was supposed to go to the opening game , 
and i could n't tell you who pitched , 
but they won , 
the mets won . 
did they ? 
not my a lot , 
and then somebody else lost , 
maybe it was the other new york team which is the yankees , 
but i do n't even know if they 're still new york yankees , or new jersey . 
that 's so stupid that you all have two teams . 
that 's really stupid . 
then they can have them play against each other . 
i know . 
i think it 's still the new york yankees , 
i thought they were moving to new jersey . 
this is how much i know about baseball . 
the texas rangers , they lost , i think . 
we did go to a baseball game last year . 
we got free tickets because one of the deacons at church , parks cars at the mansion at turtle creek which is one of the places and stuff . 
and he 's their head chauffeur , as they 're parking the cars the valet service . 
he makes good money too doing that , 
i was shocked , 
but someone gave an iranian a tip of four rangers tickets last year , 
he did n't want them , 
so he gave them to alan , 
and alan and his dad had plans that night 
so they gave them to us , 
he decided that some wealthy man tipped this iranian with baseball tickets , 
with baseball tickets . 
and we ended up with them . 
and so we were , walking up 
. 
and i looked at my husband 
and i said , you know what kyle 
this is the mansion at turtle creek a tip 
i bet these are really good seats 
and so we ended up on first base right down there on the floor , 
they called us at five 
and the game started at seven 
so we just threw everything together , ran over and got the tickets and walked 
and so we took two kids with us 
because they 're fancy seats and stuff . 
and you just sit down 
and all the girls were all dressed up , 
i just was there , 
like i 'm loaded , 
i 'm here , 
but we got to sit by first base 
if they did hit a ball i would have been afraid it would have knocked my face in . 
i know i 'm always scared of that whenever i go to a game . 
i rarely go 
but we went last year 
he does football leagues and baseball leagues and all kinds of stuff , 
and if there 's a game on , he 's watching it . 
that 's all there is to it , 
and he 's glued at the t v . 
i 'm glad my husband 's not like that . 
i 'm glad my husband 's not like that either , 
i 'd kill him . 
my brother 's like that 
and he goes to a lot of games , 
not a real lot , 
but he tries to go , 
then my father got us some tickets , 
so my brother 's wife and my husband and i went . 
last year we wanted to show my husband what a baseball game was because being a non-american you want to see what a baseball game is like . 
and he describes it as , you sit there in a crowd , 
it was nice weather and stuff , 
it was n't a real problem , 
but you sit there in a crowd , 
and you 're waiting and waiting and waiting 
and you eat the hot dogs , 
because we made him try a hot dog , 
that 's funny . 
so you sit there 
and you wait for the longest time really bored , 
and then all of a sudden something happens 
but you happen to look the other way during the time , 
you miss the whole thing . 
and so basically you sit there and wait for something exciting to happen 
and when it happened he missed it , and did n't understand it 
that 's funny . 
he grew up in , which is the , sort of strip east to west , eastern part , 
where is he from in france ? 
i had a friend in college from strasbourg , 
he 's not that far , 
he was sort of in between strasbourg , and paris . 
paris . 
and my cousin lives in paris 
and she 's lived there off and on for twenty years . 
is she still there ? 
saint claude is that sound familiar ? 
saint claude , 
that 's one of the entrances to the periphery to get in and out of the city . 
and it sits right at the limit , 
but we met in paris . 
that 's neat . 
she married 
and they have twelve children . 
twelve children ? 
she has twelve children . 
the poor woman . 
she looks gorgeous , 
she 's gorgeous 
and she just liked having kids 
and she 's thin 
and four or more children are thin , 
were any of them twins ? 
i 'm not kidding you . 
you probably ca n't afford to eat if you have more than two of them . 
i have a friend now that has seven . 
and they 're all nine and under , 
they 're all real young , 
they 're just raised right 
that 's what god 's told them to do 
but they 're not condemning you , 
we only have one child , 
they do n't put on bad or anything which is good because it would be easy for them to do that , 
you get a conviction like that 
and you think everyone should have it . 
and so i 'm real proud of them because they do n't do that at all . 
you go in their bathroom 
and there 's ten tooth brushes in there . 
and i always give her a hard time 
whose toothbrush did you really use this morning . 
but how do they afford to even have the kids , 
we 're expecting our first baby , almost any day 
they live lean for one thing 
and they tithe 
it puts a whole in your money bag , 
we do n't honor god with this portion 
i think that helps a lot . 
i think that 's the key , in his sales last year 
he just works a normal job . 
he probably has an income of thirty-five thousand , 
that got him a bonus of twenty-five thousand which allowed him to pay cash for a full size van . 
he loves god , 
it was the biggest thing that any one in this company had ever done , 
and he got to do it 
and so god just really blesses him in ways like that , 
do trust god because kids are a blessing 
and we think of blessings as nice furniture and things like that , 
but kids are just as much of a blessing inside these material things 
but it 's a different kind 
and a lot times people think , i 'm not blessed 
i have an old car . 
but you 've got five kids , 
there 's a good book called what the bible has to say about child training , by richard fugate 
a lot of wisdom in it . 
and the kids at bible talk about anything but training , 
and training is different than anything else 
psychology does n't address it . 
the good stuff that 's in psychology it just comes out of the bible 
and they do n't quote you the proverb out of it , 
but the things that work in psychology other the years that they 've proven to work , they just come out of the bible 
and so this book it just really 
so they 're not going to be a curse to you when they 're thirteen . 
how to train them so they 're going to be a blessing 
and so they do that 
and they just live lean pretty much 
she does n't shop at foley 's and stuff like that . 
but a lot women die or shop at foley 's 
i do n't know what foley 's is . 
it 's a macy 's , kind of store , 
it 's pretty nice 
and everything 's pretty expensive 
and you just ca n't do that 
and you do n't go to baseball games as much 
or you get pictures like we did . 
you know what i mean ? 
you do these fun things in other kinds of ways 
and i know manhattan 's real expensive 
but it 's kind of a different situation because you 're probably living in an apartment ? 
that makes a really big difference . 
but , still it 's just as hard as having , that , 
but your cousin could have a baseball team with twelve kids . 
church softball leagues , 
they 're not all boys 
and right now we do n't have a girls ' league because i 'm the one that 's supposed to start one 
and i just have n't gotten around to doing it . 
i keep saying we need to have one . 
they go , then start one . 
but everybody wants to do it 
but god 's sitting on my heart 
and i just had n't gotten around to doing it , 
so they could really only have four members on the team . 
i think they only have four boys . 
i do n't even think they have but two old enough to play yet . 
but then you did n't believe me about her kids 
they are so good . 
i 'm not kidding you 
but she does work with them 
and it 's a commitment 
and , that 's what they 're called to do . 
i admire someone that can do that , 
i really can . 
i know , 
i do too , 
most of my friends have three or four kids 
and some of the people in our church use birth control 
i had my tubes tied 
when you baby-sit , what age group children do you sit with ? 
all kinds mostly between the ages of two and ten . 
a few summers ago i kept two children every day for the entire summer 
and they became like my children . 
i 'd think so . 
and they live in an apartment complex 
so we swam a lot 
and we played on the playground a lot 
and then we would go to a movie on thursdays 
and there was always an activity , , 
they had their favorite t v shows and things like that that we watched 
and then we took naps 
and i do n't know 
it just seems like there was always something to do . 
children are so full of energy . 
and they just keep you going . 
was this a one parent or two parent family ? 
one parent . 
one parent . 
how much time did she spend with them ? 
not much at all . 
i would get there at eight o'clock in the morning , 
the children usually were n't awake by then . 
and she would get home at five thirty in the afternoon . 
and they would have dinner 
and then it was time for them to go to bed . 
now at this particular time the children were two and six . 
i 've been baby-sitting this child for about eight years , 
he 's nine now 
and i 've watched him grow up 
and he 's like a little brother to me . 
and it 's changed over the years , 
we get along a lot better now that he 's older . 
and we do different things now , 
we used to play ball a lot 
but now he likes to watch t v 
and he 's into wrestling . 
and i kept him on friday night , 
we went to go see a movie and things like that 
but i feel like when i have children i want to be able to spend a lot of time with them . 
you say you go to school ? 
i go to l s u . 
and what are you studying ? 
communications . 
sounds like you 're getting a lot of experience in communicating with children . 
i love children . 
i do n't know , 
when i was growing up my mom stayed at home with me and my brother until we were in junior high . 
i think it was very beneficial to us . 
in the summer we were always in the library programs reading books 
and we went skating a lot 
and she was just always there for us , 
but nowadays if there are two parents to a family , the mother works just as hard as the father does , 
and the children either stay at home and get into trouble 
or they 're stuck in a day care . 
and i just do n't want my children to have to be raised like that . 
all my friends , their parents worked all the time , 
they got to stay at home by themselves 
and when i was younger i thought they were lucky because they got to get away with things , like i could n't ride my bike across the street , but they could because their mom would never know it . 
but now i realize that it was better because they have got into a lot of trouble , because of lack of supervision . 
you say you 're in communications , 
what base of communications would you be most interested in getting in to ? 
i 'm majoring in public relations . 
public relations , 
so , you would have a job with a company ? rather than radio or television or newspapers or , what have you . 
ma'am . 
and then you 'd be willing to give up your job to stay home or stay with the children ? 
i would like to stay at home with my children for at least the first five years . 
but what i plan to do in the future is go ahead and get my upper education as far as my masters , and work on my doctorate and teach college , 
and in that case then i 'll be at home when my children are at home , 
but i 'd like to stay at home with them until they get at least into kindergarten , where they 're at school from eight to three or something 
and then i would be at my school , teaching . 
that is an advantage of being in the education field . 
i spent thirty-four years in education . 
what grade ? 
i started out with college and then went to high school 
did you ? 
what did you teach ? 
i taught physical education . 
i started out as a p e major , in education . 
i wanted to be a p e teacher . 
i sure did . 
i found that it was a perfect combination from the standpoint of having vacations off at the same time . 
and it worked out fine from that standpoint , 
usually my husband was seldom home for maybe forty-five minutes or so 
and then our son , he had to get on the bus , 
and he did get on the bus , 
it was his responsibility 
absolutely . 
i was in physical education then 
and i just kept getting pushed into administration , 
wound up in administration , 
and so , he thought surely that i would have bought a hot line , to know if he ever skipped school , which , of course , was not the case 
and i would n't have checked on him . 
however there are , points both directions in that from the standpoint of parents working and not working . 
i listened to more than one parent say i do n't know what this child wants . 
i 'm working two jobs , 
they each have their own television , 
they each have their own telephone , 
they each have their own rooms , 
they each have this , 
they each have that . 
i 'd say , but what they do n't have is you . 
that 's right . 
they need some attention . 
absolutely . 
because that is the way of getting attention . 
whenever my mom stayed home with us , we did without a lot , 
it 's hard to make it on one income , 
that 's right . 
but we did 
and we lived in a trailer for eighteen years . 
and we only had one car , 
we only had one telephone , 
we did n't get to eat out all the time 
but i feel like that it helped me now because i appreciate the value of the dollar , 
and i also had the supervision that i needed while i was growing up , 
and i hope that i can provide that for my child too . 
and we need more of that , 
we need more parents willing to supervise , 
though we 've had such a breakdown in the family structure , from the standpoint of , church and school and everything along the way . 
we have . 
and that has contributed much to the delinquency that works and the poor school results that we 're having . that the students ' parents have just not really taken enough interest in them from the very very beginning 
and i think my feeling was that the very best teachers should be in grades one , two , and three . to get the students off to a good start let them have positive experiences , from the lower levels so they want to continue learning and keep going and not wait until they 're in the ninth and tenth grades , 
it 's too late then , 
you can not , reverse that trend at that point . 
it is . 
it 's way too late , 
i agree . 
and while parents very often will be involved with the school activities when the child 's in the elementary school they get into the high schools so often they seem to drop away at that point . 
and , that is just as valuable , at that time , as to the rush in the elementary . 
it is . because all the peer pressure , it starts in high school 
and the parent really needs to be there for the child . 
and the child needs to take pride in the fact that their parent is doing something . 
we were fortunate in view of the fact that my son did play football 
and i did keep statistics for his team , 
and , his dad did take movies of the football team and movies of the basketball team , 
and we tried to be a part of it but not overshadowing him or making him feel that we had to be there all the time . 
so , i feel that i learned a great deal from my students with regard to what their biggest complaints were with parents . 
when i was your age i did n't have this or that , 
and i know i never ever said that because i knew that that was one thing that was really irritating to young people . 
i guess that was good that you were hearing it from other students . 
and i had to deal with their problems 
and i could talk about the kinds of problems which they were bringing that they had just in general aspect 
and our son would share this 
and then he would have to make decisions for himself along those same types of , lines . so that , i think he benefited from my experiences . 
does your son work for t i ? 
he works for a different company . 
in the dallas area 
and he held three jobs . wally 
and we did n't even know it . 
he did n't even tell us . that he had three jobs 
but when he graduated he had a five thousand dollar bank account 
and we had told him that if he ever wanted to go to college he could go , 
if he got married he was on his own , 
if he flunked out he was on his own ... 
stephanie , what 's your position on gun control ? 
on a scale of one to ten being ten , no , kind of legislation and zero being total ban , i probably would lean more towards six or seven . 
i feel like a total ban on guns is just going to put the guns in the hands . 
i lived in massachusetts for two years 
and they have a total ban on guns 
and i saw that , it did n't stop crime in that state . 
was that just on handguns 
or was that on rifles ? 
any kind of firearms . 
there was a mandatory jail sentence if you were caught with a firearm 
and also i think there was a fine . 
and that did n't help at all ? 
the crime is not any better or any worse , 
i should n't say i do n't know if it was any worse , 
but it certainly did n't get any better . 
i guess i would tend myself to be more towards the , three , where i do n't think you should necessarily ban guns by any means , 
but you should definitely have the character search and the seven day holding period and things along that nature , 
you should n't be able to go out there and just buy one right off the shelf . 
i agree with that . 
i think that the law on who can buy a gun are way too lax . 
and , so , i think that kind of control would be good , 
i 'm trying to think of how many times you make the statement and , just to kind of it a little bit 
and i know that any statement in absoluteness is not necessarily true , 
only the guns were in the hands of the criminals , 
i guess i have never heard of a robbery being foiled or spoiled because the person who 's being robbed had a gun . 
and maybe they just do n't report those 
or i 'm not sure 
or i ca n't think of ever hearing on the news or whatnot or hearing or knowing anybody who was being robbed 
but good thing they had their gun on them 
and they thwarted the robbery attempt . 
i 'm not really sure , 
personally i do n't own a gun , 
and i do n't think i probably ever would although i would like to know how to handle one , 
and i think everybody should learn how to handle one . 
you just never know when you might come into contact with one . 
were you brought up in a family that hunted 
nobody in my family hunted , 
my father had guns when i was in high school because he got them from a friend who lived in massachusetts . 
we lived in new hampshire at the time . 
how about that . 
and he lived in massachusetts and had to get rid of all his guns , 
so we ended up with these guns , 
and really my only experience with a gun was shooting a pistol and not knowing how to hold it right 
and the hammer came back and hit me in the thumb 
and blood squirted everywhere . 
and so that was really the only experience that i 've had with guns 
and it kind of scared me . 
but i think that if i learn how to use one , i would feel better . 
the n r a and people have their thing if you ban guns , you 're just banning the recreation , the sport of hunting , things of that nature . 
most of that 's done with rifles and such . though there 's probably some sector that does it with handguns . 
but just the mere fact of outlawing handguns , would make it so that it would be not as conspicuous , 
you could n't be inconspicuous , when you walked into a store stuff like that , 
you could see someone coming or dressed inappropriately , 
made it more difficult to get a handgun . 
of course in this world anytime you 've freedom you can be able to get anything you want . 
that 's true . 
but to make it more difficult for the person who 's just so irate and upset and temporarily a little bit offset or off keel , 
i do n't know if that 's a large percentage of crime or not 
but i guess it would be some . 
today they just introduced what 's called the brady bill . the seven day mandatory waiting period , on getting any guns . 
and i think that that 's a good idea . 
i would definitely support that . 
and i know this may sound kind of stereo typical 
but the cowboys with the gun racks in the back of their trucks . that 's kind of scary to me 
, to me it is more like vigilantism . 
and it kind of scares me especially with all the shootings that have been going on , in l a , on the freeways , 
that 's crazy . 
and then you come here in the dallas area , 
i do n't believe that people should be allowed to carry guns in their vehicles . 
especially not in the back window , for everybody to see . 
that 's kind of wild . 
that is kind of wild . 
that 's all very interesting . 
thanks for talking . 
you 're welcome . 
so do you have a personal computer ? 
we do have one in our home , 
it 's on the fritz right now , because the monitor is n't working properly 
but it has been used tremendously , mostly by my children for playing games . 
but it does have a word processing program , which all of us have used for reports and papers and that sort of thing . 
when this subject was mentioned to us i went , that 's all i use mine for is a word processor , 
and i have n't used it since i got out of college , 
and that was six years ago , 
my sister bought it 
and my father had a small business 
and she thought that he would incorporate it and use it in the business , 
and he never did , 
he always did everything out by hand . 
he only had three employees , 
so it was n't really worth it to him to do it . 
it would be worth it , if he were able to get a program that would do something that he normally had to do by hand . 
like pay , the payroll 
and there are , lots of them on the market . 
basically payroll . 
but you do have to research that , find out what works for your system . 
what kind do you have ? 
it 's an i b m , 
i think it 's a professional three hundred , 
that 's the digital one . 
it 's an i b m p c junior , i think . 
that 's a nice computer . 
she moved 
and my father was n't using it , 
so she took it with her . 
do n't blame her . 
she just finished up her bachelor 's degree 
so i do n't know if she 's going to even use it anymore . 
encourage her to try other things , 
i work in a school system , 
and i teach writing 
and we use the computers a great deal for word processing because students really do seem to be freer when they write on the computer , as you probably found out yourself , 
but i also am sponsoring a literary magazine , 
and we 're doing our entire layout on the computer because of the graphics program and a page maker program that we have , a publishing program . 
that 's neat , 
that 's , a very good use . 
so , it is wonderful , 
once you get into some of the programs that are out now , you can do so much with them , that you do n't do until you really make yourself use them . 
i know there 's got to be a lot of uses , 
but it 's just you have , to have a need . 
you have to make yourself do it , 
but you have to have a need . 
i really have no need for it at all , 
i work for digital equipment 
and we have a powerful computer down at work . 
so , you do n't need a personal one ? 
and i still really do n't do that much , as you say , play games on it , 
they 're great for playing games . 
my son is studying electronic technology , 
and he 's been able to do things on the personal computer here that really have enhanced his reports , and his learning and all because he can lay things out that way . 
if you 're doing that sort of thing it 's really useful , 
but unless it is , i guess it 's kind of a waste . 
they just went through a course and took the electronic grafting course , drafting , not grafting , but drafting course , 
that 's , fascinating . 
the c a d . 
i knew what you meant , 
and that 's really neat , 
you can do graphs on it too , 
but this is one step above it , 
but it 's actual drafting , 
you can do wonderful design . 
you have to be so precise . 
and the computer does it all for you . 
so it was really neat . 
i wanted to go to that course , 
but my boss would n't pay for it , 
i 'm i 'll get a job some day 
and my boss will pay for it , 
i 'll be needed . 
because i did n't want to go do it myself 
because i did n't think i was really going to use it . 
i got this cough , 
i 've got a cold because it was eighty degrees up here and i went outside with no coat on . 
it was bad . 
what a change ? 
it was a big change . 
you could n't really wear a coat because it was so hot , 
and then , again , i picked up a cold . 
but i 'm doing all right , getting over it . 
that 's good . 
so i do n't even know how much personal computers cost nowadays . 
they vary tremendously . 
the ones that were made a few years ago have come down in price significantly , 
i 've seen them for five , and six hundred dollars , 
they ca n't do your drafting and your graphs , and all of that . 
you ca n't do very much on them . 
it 's just that you have to be able to get your program in , 
and , many of the programs are so big , 
they take up so much space that you do n't have any place then to work . 
you do n't have any , bytes left 
but if you want to go into one that 's really useful , you 're going to have to go over a thousand dollars , 
and even for a personal computer it 's probably smart to spend that much , 
ours is not quite that powerful , 
you do run into limitations on yours ? 
some things we ca n't do , 
but then we have n't needed to either , 
but we 've been able to do what we can . 
that 's neat that you even reach the limits of yours . 
i have n't even begun to reach the limits , 
mine is not as good as a p c junior , 
junior , 
ours is a commodore one twenty-eight . 
and it 's not quite as useful , not quite as powerful . 
they , say that commodore has made a good p c for the price , though . 
they did , 
that 's very true , 
that 's very true , 
they did . 
very competitive . 
i do n't even know my sister spent on hers , 
but i just thought it 's going to be a waste , 
she 's , not going to use it . 
sounds that you were right . 
she likes it , 
she gets to write her reports , 
but like i say , she could have bought a much cheaper model and done what she wanted . 
and she could have bought a typewriter also . 
a typewriter with memory would have been fine , 
it 's all she uses it for . 
i think it might have a spelling editor on it , 
i 'm not sure . 
if it does n't she could easily put it on . 
that 's the one great thing about it . 
which program did you use ? 
did you use word perfect ? 
it was six years ago . 
she pretty much set it up . 
she goes , you make your file , 
and then you can edit it . 
i used the one at work a lot , 
god forbid , 
write a couple of resumes , 
and i was just great , 
and all you have to do is just put it in the spelling check mode , 
and i do n't even have to look my words up anymore . 
they 're great , 
you 're right . 
i guess we 've spent our time . 
i need to go help my daughter do something , 
so this has been fun talking to you . 
good . 
good luck . 
i guess i do n't really have a problem with capital punishment . 
i 'm not really sure what the exact specifications are for texas . 
i know that they have capital punishment for certain crimes , 
and that 's probably the way i feel about it is , it kind of depends on the crime that 's committed . 
my belief all my life has been that if you take someone else 's life , then you automatically are giving up yours in place of it . 
seems to be a lot of controversy about that . 
i tend to agree with you , 
probably pretty similar views on it , 
but that 's one of the things i do n't understand is so much of the controversy 
because i do also , myself , believe in capital punishment , 
it really irks me to see so much effort put into preventing someone being put to death by the state when they so callously and usually without even thinking or without any concern end somebody else 's life , and in a lot of cases several people 's lives . 
that 's true . i guess , 
there 's probably two or three different types of views as far as the controversy goes . 
i can see where if a life was taken by accident or not premeditated or primarily by accident , , there may be cases where the death penalty is not called for , 
if it 's premeditated or if it 's kind of a tendency that people may get into , then i guess i do n't really have a problem with it . 
that 's kind of the way i feel . 
if you 've got a guy who 's been to trial and has been in and out of jail basically a three time loser for the twelfth time and he goes out and kills somebody , he 's not going to be reformed , 
he 's not going to get any better , 
it 's just not going to get any better . 
a lot of people have the opinion that , do n't have capital punishment , 
but give them life in jail 
and i could go along with that , if i could be assured that it would be their natural life in jail and not parole after ten , or twelve years . 
i think that 's what aggravates a lot of people , is somebody does get a life sentence in place of the death penalty , 
and they wind up back on the streets after five years or six years or like the kid on the news tonight out in mesquite who was out in six months . . 
it 's just our criminal system is just so overloaded , 
but the problem is not so much with the prison system , 
because the cops are out there doing their job enforcing the laws , 
they 're trying to cope with them , 
the thing about capital punishment , 
a lot of people do n't think it would be a deterrent to future crime , 
and the way it is now , it 's not . 
the state of texas , for example may execute somebody twice a year . 
that 's no kind of deterrent because we 've got literally hundreds of people on death row , and many of them who have been there literally for ten or fifteen years on death row , 
and that 's certainly no kind of deterrent , 
and i would tend to agree with anybody who says right now that it 's not a deterrent , because it 's not . 
it 's not . 
you think of your chances of getting the death penalty after committing a crime are really pretty slim right now . 
and you can , probably spend a lot of time or maybe eventually just waiting it out , 
and that 's where a lot of aggravation comes is , these guys spend so much time in the appeal process or just in the waiting process , 
they may spend years , 
and the last i heard it was costing ten , twenty , thirty thousand dollars a year to keep these guys waiting . 
it 's amazing . 
there 's a girl i work with , our secretary , as a matter of fact , 
her father was murdered , her father and three other guys up here in sherman . 
and the guy , that they tried and convicted and sentenced him to death he 's been on death row for eight years . 
and this was her father that got killed just cold-blooded murder , him and three other people , 
but still , for some reason this guy 's sentence has not been carried out , 
he 's sitting on death row for eight years after having killed four people , 
and the state still ca n't bring itself to execute , this guy . 
to carry it out . 
it sort of takes the justice out of the justice system . 
it does , 
it really does . 
she , and they have to go back , 
occasionally she has to write letters to the parole board and lawyers , 
and just ever so often she mentions , she 's got to do something else write another letter , or do something . 
it should be over and done with . 
she should be getting on with her life getting that part behind her , 
but yet , it 's kind of tied to her the way it is now . 
it is . 
and she winds up being a victim , day after day after day . 
a victim , 
not only indirectly of the crime , but also indirectly by that , indirect involvement . 
it 's ridiculous . 
she 's an emotional victim . 
it 's terrible 
and like you say , the cops that are out doing the work , day by day have got to have a lot of frustration when they see all their work , basically go out the window . 
i could n't be a cop for that very reason because they do . 
the criminal gets right back out 
and the cop 's just got to go back and do his thing all over again , because so many of the crimes are done by repeat offenders . 
they are . 
that 's about five minutes , 
it 's a pleasure talking with you . 
ron , 
we 'll see you later . 
what , 
go ahead and tell me about your home . 
my home at the moment is an apartment . 
is that right ? . 
i work here in germantown , 
but i live in pensacola , florida . 
that 's interesting . 
i own a home in pensacola , 
and let 's see , 
we are to compare homes . 
correct ? 
my home is typical for the area . 
i live in a development , 
it sounds like i 'm bragging . 
that 's okay . 
but it 's upper middle class kind of an environment . 
it 's a two story colonial , which my wife and i designed . 
that 's neat . 
it has around thirty-two hundred square feet . five bedrooms and so forth and so on , 
that 's large . 
and i would imagine in terms of size and so forth , it 's relatively typical for the area . 
i would say it 's probably midsized for the area . 
there are some smaller , 
and there are , several larger . 
it is probably ten years old . 
that 's not too bad , 
that 's still fairly new . 
the housing there is extremely affordable compared to other parts of the country , 
let 's say compared to maryland , that same house here would probably cost three-quarters of a million dollars 
you 're kidding . 
do you mind if i ask what it 's worth down there , 
when we built it ten years ago , it ran around a hundred and forty thousand dollars . 
so , i have n't really priced in the market , 
from the way you described it a home like that here would be at least two hundred and fifty thousand . 
dallas is a very marked up area , 
although right now it 's a lot lower because of all the layoffs and everything 
the economy around here is real poor . 
i thought that was on the upswing again now . 
not really . 
the area itself the fort worth dallas area has become kind of depressed because there 's been so many layoffs with big companies , including texas instruments . 
there 's been tremendous amounts of , layoffs 
so , really housing is real bad . 
the economy itself around here is not too terribly bad , 
but housing is still real bad . 
it really is a buyer 's market there now . 
there has been a lot of speculative building . 
i do n't know , 
perhaps not in dallas , 
but i 'm sure people in , galveston and so forth would be knowledgeable about it , 
pensacola is a navy town . 
and home porting was a possibility a few years ago . 
they were expecting an influx of something on the order of fifty thousand people or more from the navy , 
a new carrier was coming in and the attendant support vessels . 
that 's no longer , the case . 
it was overdeveloped then ? 
it is . 
the number of single family units on sale is phenomenal compared to the population . 
and so overbuilding has been a real problem there . 
so you can still get a good house for a very , very reasonable price . 
let 's say typical , say three bedroom two and a half baths , on a half acre or so of land , 
reasonable construction would probably run you right now somewhere between a hundred and a hundred and forty thousand dollars . 
and probably , perhaps , cheaper , depending upon the neighborhood . 
what about your home ? 
right now we 're just renting , 
but it is a home . 
it 's a four bedroom home . 
it has about eighteen hundred square feet . 
it 's on one floor . 
we have no basement . 
i do n't know , 
nor do we , 
i was n't sure . 
most of the ones up north and everything do , 
but anyway it 's also pretty typical for the area . 
most of this area was developed , 
this house was built in seventy-four . 
it 's almost twenty years old , 
and most of the houses around here were built pretty much the same style . 
we have a friend that lives two blocks over , 
and his house is almost identical to us , except his is three bedrooms and ours is four 
but otherwise the layout is pretty much the same . 
so i think most of them are 
like most areas that are built there were probably two or three styles you could choose from . 
and , that 's pretty much all the houses in the area , for probably a square mile at least , maybe even a little bit more than that . 
the housing here in maryland is just atrocious . and in the entire d c area . 
i 'm only about twelve miles or so from the border of washington d c , and montgomery county , 
where are you in relation to sevren ? 
are you close to sevren ? 
we are west . 
sevren is east , near the eastern shore , 
i have a sister that used to live in sevren . 
and they bought their home around nineteen seventy-five or something like that , 
they designed it and everything , 
and to have it built they only paid forty thousand for it , 
and when they left the area they sold it for a hundred and twenty thousand . 
that 's not unusual , 
that area over there is not as expensive as in the immediate washington area . 
for example there is a condominium complex next to the apartment complex where i live , 
and i was over there recently looking at the possibility of buying a two bedroom condominium . 
and ninety-two thousand dollars for a two bedroom , which is essentially a two bedroom apartment . 
it was very nicely done . 
sounds like a lot of money though , 
i ca n't envision spending that much money , on something along those lines . 
i guess you pay the piper 
plus the taxes around here are phenomenally , high . 
on what you described as your house and what i would describe as my house in pensacola , florida , on that house with the homestead exemption and so forth and so on , might pay three or four hundred dollars a year taxes . 
maybe a little bit higher than that now , 
but that same house here , you 'd pay almost six thousand dollars a year , taxes on it . 
that much of a difference ? 
it 's really sad . 
this is one of the most highly taxed areas in the country . 
why is that ? 
do you know ? 
they do have such things as extremely good school systems , for example . 
it has one of the best school systems in the country . 
public employees make great salaries around here . 
this is the figure , 
he makes eighty thousand dollars a year . 
they did not define it , 
what kind of a car do you drive now ? 
i drive a honda prelude . 
do you ? 
i drive a honda accord . 
i bought mine a year ago 
so i 'm not buying a car any time soon . 
me either . 
i just bought mine , 
it will be a year in august . 
i love it though . 
i love hondas . 
i think i found my car . 
i like where all the controls are 
they 're in good spots 
and i have an automatic 
i ca n't drive a standard . 
i have a standard . 
an it 's supposedly real reliable 
the only thing i 've ever heard about hondas is that the breaks go out first . 
i had n't heard that . 
what did you have before you bought that . 
i had a buick regal . 
did you ? 
i had a mazda r x seven before that 
and that was the worse car i 've ever driven in my life . 
the buick was great . 
it was nine years old 
and it , was still going strong . 
the only problems i had with it in the nine years that i owned it , i had to replace the compressor when it was about seven years old . 
and that was the only major problem that i had 
i had little piddly things like i had to replace the muffler 
and i had replaced the tires 
and seems like it had a radiator leak once . 
but i never had any major anything , other than the compressor . 
i really never had anything major with my mazda 
but it was a standard also 
and the clutch went out on it toward the end , 
i had it five years 
and the last two years it seemed to go out really easily . 
i think it went out twice in two years 
and that 's a lot 
it should n't go out that much . 
and so i went ahead and bought another standard when i bought the honda 
but i do n't think i 'm going to do that again . 
i think i 'm going back to automatic now . 
i kind of know how to drive standard 
but i 've never owned one 
so i do n't drive one a lot . 
i do n't feel comfortable in traffic with it . 
and for everything i 've heard it 's a lot easier to sell an automatic . 
it is . 
and resale value is really important to me . 
that 's true . 
it is too 
that 's why i got the honda . 
hondas have great resale value . 
the mazda definitely did not . 
not at all . 
they 're worse than american cars or just as bad as far as resale goes . 
i did pretty well with my regal because it was in really good shape 
but , it still looked real nice , 
the interior was still really nice , 
there was n't cracks all over the dash board and stuff . 
and it had some nice features . 
so i ended up okay with the buick , 
and i anticipate the same thing with the honda whenever i decide to sell it , 
of course , i may never sell it , 
i may drive it until it 's dead 
that 's what i did with the mazda , drive it until the clutch went out and the wheels fell off , 
but i really like the hondas . 
i like foreign cars a lot . 
i looked at the mitsubishi galant . 
i was looking for a four door car having driven the r x seven so long , 
and it was so small 
and it 's really impractical . 
so , i wanted something with a real trunk , and four doors something easy to get in and out of 
and i looked at the galant 
and those were really nice 
and i can get them for a great price . 
but i found it hard to deal with the dealership i was going through . 
that 's how i ended up with a honda . 
i was n't even looking for a car when i bought this car . 
i was thinking about buying a prelude from a friend who was moving to new york or something 
and she was going to sell her car because she did n't need it anymore 
and it was only a year old 
and i had never driven a prelude . 
so , i went to a dealership because they had the same year and same model , of prelude on their used car lot 
and i went 
and i test drove it 
and i just fell in love , with this brand new white prelude two liter s i with the sun roof and the moon roof 
they 're nice i think . 
and i , bought it loaded . 
i have to have them loaded , 
i love all those little things that you do n't need 
but they 're so wonderful . 
i went there looking at a used car 
and two days later i bought this car . 
i felt like that was largest impulse that i had ever made . 
the two , other things that i bought on impulse are a v c r and a washer , and dryer . 
i understand . 
i go for the big stuff . 
i noticed . 
mine was definitely not impulse 
i really needed a new car . 
it was getting worn out from being a sports car . 
i drove it kind of hard , 
and i got it right after high school . 
so , by the time i traded it in it was ready . 
i got my buick as a high school graduation gift . 
ready to go . 
did you ? 
but i guess this was n't really an impulse 
, buying it right then and right quickly was kind of impulsive 
but i 'd been thinking about buying a new car for about three years 
and i was just scared to . 
i was scared to start taking on payments because the buick was long since paid for . 
that 's the same with me . 
would you ever buy a used car for a new car for yourself ? 
buy a used car ? 
i was going to buy one once 
but i worry about who 's driven them and what they 've been through and the warranties and things like that . 
just , i ca n't seem to get over that . 
that just bothers me 
i do n't know why . 
supposedly , the maintenance records was supposed to be registered with honda or whatever 
and you can request whatever maintenance records exist on cars 
and you can have them checked out by mechanics and stuff . 
that 's true . 
they ca n't stop you from doing it . 
hoping that they do go to a honda dealership to get them serviced . 
and even if they did n't , you can still get a good idea if you can get a good mechanic to , check it over real carefully and check the block and everything . 
that 's true . 
i guess that 's all . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
i guess we 're on . 
hang on 
do you usually get a message ? 
hang on 
let me check on it . 
i do n't know . 
let me try it once more . 
i think we 're on , maybe . 
i guess we 'll find out . 
in maryland are you a skins fan ? 
i really was n't from here 
so the teams i really root for in football are the niners and the seahawks 
only the niners because i used to live out in california , 
i like seattle because i like seattle 
and besides i like the city . 
so , you were out there in san francisco ? 
san jose , actually but close , 
other than the big catch with the forty-niners and the cowboys back a few year ago i like san francisco . 
but i do n't know 
i never really was a cowboys fan until i moved down to texas . 
is that where you are now ? 
i 'm in dallas 
and i guess when you 're down here in dallas you finally get indoctrinated into the cowboys because this is a big football territory down here . 
and unfortunately , of course , the cowboys have been doing so bad in the past few years . 
i do n't know , 
they 're still behind them 
but it 's not like it used to be . 
you back the winners 
and you do n't back them when they 're not doing well . 
that 's right . 
but i think actually in trying to follow the cowboys over the years they used to have a philosophy for probably the last twenty-five years except for about the last about five or six years , 
they always went out and tried to draft the best athletes . and did n't really draft for any particular spot . 
but they would go out and try to go for the best people and then mold them into different areas or find their natural niche . 
and then about four or five years ago , they started going after specific players or positions , 
the press would get down on landry , 
and this is when schramm was still there . 
and they 'd go after them saying what you really need is a defensive end . 
so they 'd go out and try to find a defensive end 
and when they drafted somebody and he did n't work out at that spot it really was n't a good enough athlete to move to any place else . 
so i think it was kind ever interesting . 
i think the decline of the cowboys as a powerhouse really kind of started with not drafting the best athletes . 
it makes sense because you 've got the flexibility 
if they 're good athlete they can do a bunch of different things . 
my main sport is baseball 
but i 've been enjoying football 
but i do n't know it as well . 
cowboys are going to have a problem are n't they ? 
is it this year they do n't have a draft pick because of the walker trade 
or what was the whole deal on that ? 
they still have some draft picks that they got , 
they do n't , have anything high do they ? 
actually , they picked up some from minnesota . 
i think it was minnesota 's , 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
it went the other way . 
what was i thinking . 
they traded herschel , to minnesota . 
they traded walker , 
my brain is really working well tonight . 
that 's okay , 
i 've got a friend that lives right next to the cowboys ' training camp . 
and he sees them out running a lot 
and every once in a while gets a chance to talk to some of the guys 
and they 're all thinking that they really got something going this year , 
but i guess when you have a whole bunch of professional athletes that get together at the beginning of the year everybody 's got great hopes . 
i guess it 's the same way with baseball or anybody , 
spring training until you actually start going out and getting out against the competition everything probably looks pretty good . 
i 'm sure if you go to any of the twenty-eight coaches in football in training camp they say , we 're going to be super bowl champs 
because , i know in baseball any manager you go to say , we 're going to be in the world series , even though there 's not a prayer . 
this is the way it is . 
they finished pretty close to five hundred last year did n't they ? 
they did . as a matter of fact , 
because they only won one game the year before ? 
i enjoyed that because it was against the skins . 
you do n't like the skins ? 
i live near baltimore 
and i really do n't like d c a whole lot at all . 
they got a big thing because of the expansion going on in baseball . 
d c is talking about how they 're going to get a baseball team and everything . 
it 's you guys are n't going to get a baseball team , 
i 'm sorry 
it 's not going to happen . 
but , of course the griping is that if washington does n't get a baseball team then baltimore should n't get a football team . which is probably true , 
but anyway i 've never liked d c a whole lot 
and a really hate the redskins . 
and a lot of it 's because i got a lot of people at work with that are big redskin fans . 
of course , 
of course , then you 're not that far from philadelphia . 
i 've never liked philadelphia , the city a whole lot . 
the only reason i really enjoy the eagles at all is because i really like randall cunningham . 
it was buddy ryan , the one that i ca n't stand too much . 
considering how well he gets along with jimmy johnson that does n't surprise me . 
the baltimore sun has this cartoonist in the sports section 
i guess it was january , when jimmy johnson got named coach of the year or whatever . 
it was the same year that buddy ryan got fired . 
and he had this cartoon in there about jimmy johnson 's big day , 
the first thing is the phone call from the league saying he was coach of the year 
and the second was this phone call from buddy ryan , i got fired 
can you believe that . 
actually you said you lived near baltimore ? 
i used to travel out that way a lot 
and actually i used to drive a lot between baltimore and washington 
do you know what ellicott city is ? 
it 's just west of baltimore , off route seventy . 
i used to go out of b w i a lot . 
that 's not far from where the new football stadium would be if we got an n f l team . 
they 've built a new stadium downtown , 
it 's opening next year . 
i forgot the name of it . 
is it , the wharf or the , inner harbor . 
the inner harbor . 
it 's a couple of blocks west . 
there is an old railroad yard , basically , 
there 's a big long railroad shed 
and then there 's an old station 
and they 're building the stadium on the other side of the shed from the inner harbor , which is really stupid because one of the big selling points of the new stadium is supposed to be this view of the inner harbor 
but they 're building the baseball stadium 
and they 've got land set aside for a football stadium if they ever get a n f l team . 
so it 's real easy access from south of baltimore like the airport or more importantly for the orioles from washington d c . 
the orioles say they get twenty-five percent of their attendance from d c . 
the colts still to me are the baltimore colts . 
you know ? 
they really ought to change the name in indianapolis . 
sitting here and talking about all the cities that i hate , 
i went to purdue university for a couple of years and really learned to hate indianapolis while i was out there . 
and i was not real happy when they left to go there of all places . 
did you graduate from purdue ? 
i transferred to delaware and graduated there . 
delaware ? 
there 's not a whole lot in delaware . 
but it 's close to philadelphia and baltimore , 
that 's true . 
i take it you 're an east coast type guy ? plus the west , coast , 
kind of all over the place but , east coast lately , 
what do you think about it ? 
most of the stuff up until now , in the recent months , i do n't have any problem with . 
i do n't either . 
i do n't think it 's going to change very much 
i agree with that . as far as the mess that 's developing as a result , 
i think our hands are tied as far as any further involvement , until the u n sanctions it . 
in fact , it really was to begin with . 
and i heard a comment on the radio this morning that it gets to a point where if enough people are going to be slaughtered over there over the internal problems somebody may step in again . 
but i really think it 's a u n issue , at that point because it is internal . 
and now the fact that we 're not interfering with the internal rebellion in iraq , they 're going crazy . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
you ca n't please them one way or the other . 
and i think that , i agree with you , 
this is exactly the right course . 
that 's an internal problem to iraq . 
it has nothing to do with us . 
and until he starts doing something so inhumane that the u n gets involved , then it 's nobody 's business . 
that 's right . 
these types of internal things go on all over the world all the time . 
all the time . 
and it 's certainly been going on over there for hundreds of years . 
and it 's going to continue . 
that 's right . 
as long as you have so many diverse groups that are vying for power , it 's going to happen all the time . 
that 's absolutely right . 
the kurds have tried it before . 
they 've gotten their butts kicked , 
and this is just another time that it 's happening . 
that 's absolutely right . 
they 'll regroup out in the mountains 
and they 'll try it again in a couple of years . 
it 's a very opportune moment for them to try . 
and i do n't have any doubt that through some back channels that we encouraged it . 
but , i 'm not real sure that we promised them anything . 
that would have been stupid , 
and i do n't think we did it . 
everything else we handled in this seemed to be perfectly right . 
i do n't think they would have done that . 
i agree . 
but it really does n't make any difference . 
this is just another chapter in middle eastern history . 
and there are many of them . 
there 's no doubt about it . 
the british occupied the place , 
the french occupied it , 
we 've done it . 
it 's happened so many times , 
this is really nothing special . 
and so many of the conflicts really do n't have a basis in , politics or human rights or anything like that . 
it 's religious based 
that 's right , 
it 's mostly religious anyway . 
and by self-proclamation this is a holy war 
and it is right . 
and then we go on from there 
it 's a mess . 
there 's no doubt about it , 
looking at it from the american public 's standpoints , they do n't understand the middle easterners . 
that 's right . 
their politics really is n't politics . 
it 's religion couched as politics . 
and there 's a big difference . 
we sit there 
and we think that they think the way we think . 
and that 's a big mistake , because they do n't . 
you bet . 
you bet . 
because there 's a complete different set of values . 
there 's different value placed on human life possessions and everything else . 
and what 's right is wrong 
and what 's wrong is right in some cases . 
that 's it a lot of the time . 
i was stationed in turkey for a year and a half . 
and it was tough , understanding those folks . 
they 're so completely different culturally and socially and religiously , 
it was very strange . 
i believe it . 
it was very interesting . 
i can believe that . 
i do n't claim to have an in-depth understanding by any means , 
i think some of these people that they claim as middle eastern experts do n't have a clue sometimes . 
that 's probably true , 
that 's probably true . 
they sit there and read their books and then proclaim themselves an expert . 
i 'm not real sure that 's appropriate . 
a little bit of background study has never made an expert in any field . 
that sort of goes to my pet peeve about the education system in this country , too . 
and we make experts by reading books . 
that 's right . 
and the japanese and the germans and everybody else make experts by doing . 
i guess you work for t i . 
that 's right , 
so you guys are well aware of the problems with the japanese markets and everything else . 
that 's an everyday occurrence . 
it 's like our car industry , 
the only reason our car industry has n't gone down the tubes is because the japanese came into it and helped , us out . 
i agree . 
it 's an overall problem in this country understanding foreign cultures , or even accepting them . 
we 've already been overtaken , 
but it 's going to get even worse later . 
looks who 's getting the engineering degrees and , the math and the science and everything . 
that 's right . 
it 's not us . 
that 's right . 
we 've got folks running around here who get degrees in basket weaving and underwater psychology , or some ridiculous stuff like that . 
and where are the engineers coming from ? 
they 're coming from various places , 
and a lot of them are going back there . 
it 's not industrial engineering , 
it 's human factors . 
his degree was in industrial engineering . 
i see . 
and he 's from the philippines . 
and the only reason he came here was because the education is so much better for those who will go after it . 
he has no intention of going back to the philippines because there 's no jobs . 
but i see it all too often . 
we 've got loads of foreign students 
and they 're coming here , going after the hard degrees 
and then they 're going back to korea and japan , and hong kong and everywhere else 
and they 're applying it there . 
that 's right . 
and i do n't know , 
to me it 's amazing . 
i do n't know what we 're going to do as a country . 
we 're going to become dependent on these other folks sooner or later . 
the country 's got a problem with quarterly reports and annual statements and things like that . 
and the long-range views are just kind of , become a thing of the past . 
i do n't think there can be anymore long range planning . 
i think it 's sticking your finger in the holes in the dike . 
here 's a crisis . 
let 's plug it up . 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know what the answer is . 
it 's far beyond me . 
that 's for sure . 
that 's the way things have gotten . 
all we can do is keep plugging . 
i wonder , 
i read in the paper just last week , i b m 's unveiling their new laptop computer . 
at a price tag of six thousand bucks , i do n't know if they 're going to have a whole lot of takers . 
i have the i b m , p s two 
but i 'm sorry i got it . 
it 's slow , 
the only reason i got it is because i got it through an educational purchase plan through the school 
and i saved forty-eight percent , 
so i said , if i can have an i b m for forty-eight percent discount , i 'll take it . 
but up to that point i had always said i would never have one because i would n't pay that kind of money for their name . 
that 's right . 
that 's absolutely right , 
you watch , 
just sure as anything , the japanese are going to come out with a laptop at half the price with more stuff on it . 
it 's already outdated . 
it 's obsolete , 
and we fight that battle every day here at work , 
i can imagine . 
years ago , i remember when i had a t i ninety-nine . put all the money into the expansion box and all this , that and the other 
and things just kept changing so much 
and i kept getting rid of them , 
and i finally said , you ca n't do this . 
that 's right . 
you 've got to buy something and stick with it , 
that 's right . 
at an opportune time i got one that suited my needs 
and i 've just stuck with it . 
the only thing i 've done to it is just add a mouse and a hard drive . 
and that 's all i plan to do . 
of course , i 'm limited on memory now because i 've got the low line . 
i got the model twenty-five . 
so i 'm stuck with six forty , 
but i 'm not a power user 
so it does n't matter . 
that 's the key , 
whatever works for you . 
and if it does the job , then that 's what you need . 
my roomie , on the other hand , he is a power user . 
he 's looking now to get rid of his . 
he 's got a three eighty-six and wants to get a four eighty-six this kind of stuff . 
what do you think about the peace corps or public service commitment ? 
that 's the first i 've ever heard of it . 
i have n't heard anything too much about it . 
i think it was thought up when there was so much controversy about reviving a draft 
and people said , young people who were drafted have to provide military service to the country , 
but there are an awful lot of young people who would benefit from some sort of public service , like the conservation corps back in the thirties or various other things of that sort . 
and it seems to me that it 's not a totally bad idea , 
but i do n't quite see how they 'd make it work . 
how would they decide who goes into building fire breaks in yosemite national park and who goes to saudi arabia ? 
my first impression was it would be very good . 
i think it would be good for people to serve , 
but i do n't know if it should be an option . 
it would be great to have some of those organizations like you mentioned that were during the depression or coming out of the depression available for kids . 
and i think there are some available now where they are able to work , 
the difficulty would be in whether it 's voluntary or involuntary . 
and the people who were proposing it said that it should be involuntary , that it should be like a draft . 
and some people would get military service 
and some people would get civilian service , like working in hospitals . 
i assume it 's the kinds of things that they had conscientious objectors do , when people were drafted and they refused to serve in the army , 
they were allowed to do hospital service or things like that , 
or farm work in world war one i remember reading about . 
and i suppose that there is justification for taking everybody if you take anybody . 
but i just really think that the difficulties involved in paying them sorting them out , assigning them , training them would be insurmountable . 
it seems like you 'd have a lot more conscientious objectors if they had that choice . 
it 's a possibility . 
i 'd much rather work in a hospital than to go war 
and i 'm sure most young men and women would . 
i think that in the cases like that , they had to be pretty thoroughly examined to prove that they had pacifist and religious beliefs and so forth , and that this was n't something new just to keep out of going to war . 
it was something that was a fundamental part of their philosophy of life . 
that makes sense . 
and then you run into the bureaucracy in running it . 
how you going to cover that many people 
because we 've got a lot more people now than we did then 
and , in addition to that , we have the cost because you have to pay something for , their room and board 
and then you have to pay them some kind of a stipend , 
even if it 's like the peace corps where they do n't get most of it until they come home , you have to pay them something . 
plus the training involved . 
that would be expensive in most cases . 
i had a lot of friends who went to the peace corps back in the mid sixties 
and it really did seem to be a worthwhile organization , 
but on the other hand , i 'm not sure what the permanent value of it was . 
i do n't , know what we got for all the money . 
we had an awful lot of idealistic people who went off to what was then east pakistan is now bangladesh , and to algeria and to southeast asia and lots of out-of-the-way places . 
but i do n't know if they really had significant effects in the places where they went , in teaching the people how to cope with their lives better . 
i personally took a year and a half and went as a missionary and taught christianity in japan . 
and i was living such a stringent lifestyle that it was very beneficial to me . 
it taught me not to be so self-centered and to think of others . 
but i do n't know if i was doing it in different situation not a really religious background , if i would get a lot out of it . 
i think i did because it emphasized that sort of thing . 
a lot of self evaluation . 
and it was definitely voluntary , too . 
they were not drafting you and sending you , against your will . 
and i 'm sure that would make a big difference , too . 
what about a voluntary program ? 
do you think that would be a good idea ? 
like i say , i know that there are some type of programs that they have available for teenagers to go and do work in the national parks and work in neighborhoods to clean up and that sort of thing . 
but i do n't know what organization it 's under . 
i do n't know if it 's a government run or if it 's a private charity that 's put it together . 
i do n't either . 
out here in california , there 's a program like that for juvenile delinquents , 
the ones that are not dangerous 
and they , do forestry work . 
they maintain trails 
and they put up signs 
and they do fire prevention work and certainly things of that sort . 
and that i know is run by the state , 
but there may be other things . 
i 'm not so sure what kind of training that is for the future for those kids . 
how much benefit , it 'll do them in the long run ? 
it 's probably a very good way to keep them off the streets and out of trouble , 
but whether it 's something that they can put to economic use later on is a different subject . 
especially if you take a child that 's from the inner city and then put them in a middle of a park , 
if they go back to the inner city , they may not see trees for a while , much less be able to take care of them . 
that 's true . 
good point , 
so that may not benefit them in the long run . 
i 'm sorry , 
i 'm going to have to go , 
but my other line is blinking . 
thank you . 
but it was good to talk to you . 
you , too , 
it 's very easy for anybody to find out about you . 
i do n't really like that very much . 
the special on channel thirteen that was broadcast last week or so ago , it detailed how this one person went about finding out from this particular person his home mortgage , how much he pays for it , what his payments are his social security number , driver 's license , any kind of records he may have . their credit card and the status of their credit . 
what was the reason why somebody was trying to find out all that stuff ? 
it was just as a demonstration to show those who were watching it how easily obtainable information is on any single person . 
mostly it dealt with marketing companies , these direct marketing , associations . 
that was the primary subject . 
that 's how they obtain information about segments of society and group them into age brackets their habits , their hobbies , their income . 
and they 're able to do that through all the manipulations of the computer . 
that 's not really good . 
i do n't know , 
i guess that 's an invasion of privacy . 
i 'm not sure that that 's an everyday thing , though , at least not for an individual . 
something that i feel is pretty much an invasion of privacy is something that 's really so common that it 's accepted as the norm now , is the open office concept . 
the open office ? 
where they have the little partition dividers , throughout a large room 
and people have little cubicles . 
that 's all fine and good , 
but you do n't really have any privacy at all . 
not insofar as maybe making conversation with somebody because you can easily be overheard 
i suppose any items that you have laying out can be easily seen . 
and it 's not just that , 
it 's the whole thing about if you 're trying to concentrate it 's rather hard , 
sometimes it 's almost impossible to do because your space is not your own space . 
and i work in a situation like that 
and i really kind of have a problem with that . 
do you work with mixed company , male and female 
is there anybody who does n't ? 
there are a few out there . 
i suppose it depends on who you 're working for and where at . 
but my own environment is open totally . 
there are no cubicles . 
there 's nothing to block anything . 
so 
but i guess we 're changing ever so rapidly in the devices of communications that anything can be obtained from anybody 's record , 
or the computers , the big advent of that because they can all hold such large data bases on anybody that all you have to do is touch a button 
and it appears in front of them , 
i know the government sells information to private companies about individuals or families . 
that 's no secret , 
and it should n't be that way . 
i do n't think that 's quite right either . 
it 's not really government for the people and by the people , 
i 'll tell you that . 
what do you think could be done about it ? 
the only way it can change is if everybody bands together . 
it 's just like we need to get rid of these clowns that 's serving in the office . 
the only thing that can be changed is for everybody to say , we 've had enough of you , 
out you go . 
but i do n't see anything like that to occur unless everybody bands together to do that . 
it has to be one common ideal goal for that to be done . 
i do n't know , 
it 's still a free country insofar as we 're able to obtain information . 
and i would n't be for total banning of all information 
or , it 's mostly the private information that we 're all concerned about . 
but it 's hard to define a lot of those boundaries . 
it really is . 
something that i 've just had a dealing with is a credit bureau . 
they take my name , which is a very common name , 
and my last name is even more common 
and they check that name against their list 
and they find several . 
and without even bothering to try to match up any other information at all , they just report everything under that name . 
so you 've received a lot of flack ? 
they do n't even check my social security number . 
and companies are paying them good money to report accurately , 
and they 're not , 
they 're so lazy . 
they 're just not doing it . 
they just find your name 
and they match it up . 
then to get it removed they say you have to write this long detailed letter and everything like that to them , 
and then it takes three weeks and all . 
and i 'm baloney . 
you messed it up , 
you fix it . 
is that usually what you tell them in the letter ? 
what i 've taken to doing lately is calling the company that they report 
recently i was reported as having j c penney accounts 
and i do n't . 
so i called j c penney 
and i said i just wanted to let you know that the credit agency you 're using is incorrectly reporting the information that you 're providing to them . 
and they say , uh-huh , because they really do n't want to pay for a service that 's not being done properly either . 
so then they can call the credit bureau and say , we 're paying you good money to report this properly 
and you 're not doing your job . 
good idea . 
so that 's what i 've taken to doing lately , 
and it seems to work pretty well so far . 
that 's good . 
any other problems ? 
not that i can think of . 
i can probably go on , 
i 'm clouding up right now . 
i probably better let you get back to work . 
it 's nice talking to you . 
maybe again . 
there we go . 
i 'm a dodgers fan from way back . 
how way back 
late fifties , early sixties . 
so wally moon moon shots and all that . 
what 's that ? 
coliseum , wally moon and all that . 
i 'm living just west of baltimore , 
and frederick which is also just west of baltimore , has a minor league team . 
and , wally moon is the manager of them . 
is that right ? 
so he 's still kicking around . 
that 's interesting . 
i also lived eight years in ohio before going away to college , 
and i used to go watch the toledo mudhens . 
i saw them , 
i was out there last summer , 
and i saw a game at ned skelton . 
is that the stadium ? 
i could n't tell you for sure . 
it 's been a long time . 
so there used to be a race track . 
that was impression i got when i was there 
i think that 's right . 
so had a lot of fun 
actually i like minor league baseball , a lot . 
it 's cheaper for one thing . 
that 's true . 
i think , i 've kind of become a rangers fan over the last eleven years since i 've been here . 
they 've led the american league in batting , fielding and pitching , 
but they 've never been able to do more than one of those in any given year . 
i think they 're in for a odd year this year , 
i do n't understand why encovilla got released . 
i do n't either . 
the guy 's twenty , twenty-five home rums , maybe thirty , eighty some r b i-s . 
he ca n't field 
and he strikes out a lot , 
but he 's done that for five years . 
why get rid of him now ? 
he really has become a very decent fielder . 
he 's not the liability that he was , that he used to be . 
he fits right in with detroit , bunch of guys that hit home runs and strike out a lot . 
if he strikes out a lot , so what . 
with detroit they can get away with one guy like that . 
if i were in detroit , i would start building the team around fielder . 
but that does n't mean get three other guys who hit , 
all they can do is hit home runs and strike out which they did . 
i think the key for l a this year is whether oral herschiser can come back . 
i think the pitching 's deep enough that it does n't matter . 
it may be . 
i like them a lot . 
i think they 're going to go all the way . 
and , by saying i like them , i like their chances . 
i actually do n't like the dodgers , 
i 'm a giants fan from way back . 
picking up darrell strawberry did n't hurt . 
but butler did n't hurt either . 
and bobby ojeda did n't hurt 
who 's the last one . 
bobby ojeda . 
they got him from the mets for hubie brooks . 
he 's a pretty decent pitcher . 
he is . 
and that guy the short stop , is going to be good . 
it should be an interesting year . 
i 've already been to one game , 
and i should have been to two 
are you an orioles fan ? 
the team i live and die with actually is the red sox , 
mostly die , 
but i go to the orioles since they 're here , 
and i do enjoy them . 
i 've had an opening day on monday . 
i kind of wish that they had inter league play , like they do in all the other sports so i could see some of the national league teams here once in a while . 
how far is houston ? 
three hundred miles . 
keep forgetting how big states are out there sometimes . 
it 's incredible . 
we 're pretty lucky because if i want to see a national league team , i can usually go up to philadelphia . 
there you go . 
and saw the cardinals and cubs last year , and a bunch of teams the year before . 
you are a baseball fan , are n't you . 
i try to see whatever i can . 
i 've been to thirty or forty games each of the last few years . 
hope i 'm going to do it this year because having a kid this fall , 
so it 's so much for going to lots of baseball games . 
so do it while you can . 
seriously . 
it 's been good talking with you . 
good talking with you . 
and you 'll be happy in october when the dodgers win . 
i would n't mind it . 
i 'll be upset probably even though my prediction will be right . 
god bless 
and good talking with you . 
and good talking with you . 
take care . 
do you have any children ? 
i do n't . 
you do n't . 
do you ? 
i have one . 
a five year old daughter . 
did you ever have her in child care ? 
i do . 
i stayed off work with her for little over of a year when she was born . 
and then i had her at a private sitter for two , two and a half years after that . 
and how did you choose that sitter ? 
she was referred to me by a couple of people 
and she turned out to be wonderful . 
i could n't have asked for anything better , i do n't think . 
i did n't want to send her straight to a day care . 
and , even though she was that old , i still did n't want her to go to a day care . 
and this lady , you would think it was her own . 
she 's real good . 
it 's hard to find people like that . 
it is . 
and now i have got her in a montessori school . 
and she 's really , really doing good and learning a lot . 
and , actually , i 've started working up there in the afternoons , too . 
that 's neat . 
i guess . 
i 'm going to quit as soon as the school season 's over . 
but i really enjoyed being with her up there . 
i hate it for her , 
she has to stay that much longer , 
do they have classes for them during the summer , too ? 
they go year-round teach them . 
now , in the summer they have a lot of field trips . 
there 's a field trip just about every day if they want to go on one , and stuff like that . 
it 's a lot more lax . 
but they still go through all their curriculum as usual . 
what kind of questions did you ask about the private sitter before you took her over there ? 
my husband and i both went . 
we kind of give her the third degree . 
i 'm glad to hear that . 
we went over to her house , 
we just told here we 'd be over that day . 
we did n't tell her when . 
so , that way i did n't think the house would be cleaned or anything for me specifically . 
and she had a daughter , 
and i want to say her daughter was six or seven , right around first , second grade . 
and at the time she kept one other child about a four year old . 
but it was only a part-time basis . 
so , we went over there 
and we questioned her about what she fed them and what she did with them during the day and just how she treated them , how her daughter was with the children when her daughter got home from school and , stuff like that . 
and we really seem to be pleased with her . 
did you introduce your daughter to her before you made , your decision ? 
and she still loves her to death . 
when they see each other they just love each other to death . 
and she literally spent almost the entire amount that i paid her on my daughter . either making her clothes or , buying her things . 
so , we 're real , real lucky . 
so she stayed with her about , roughly two years , 
and she had to go back to work , 
they had some other expenses that came up 
so she had to go get a real job . 
get a real job , full time . 
so , what made you decide to put her in a montessori school ? 
i checked a lot of places out the kinder cares and the , stuff like that . 
and i live in garland . 
and , there 's this montessori school that 's nearby 
and it had been recommended by some friends of ours 
but it 's an older place . 
and so , i checked out all the new places that were near us 
and then i checked that place out 
and even though it was older , it was real comfortable and kind of homey . 
and they did n't just play all day long , 
i noticed a lot of these other schools that i went and or interviewed at , they did a lot of play work and stuff . 
almost all of them had a montessori section . 
and i thought , that must be pretty good if everybody 's trying to incorporate a little bit of it into , their school . 
and they made sure they pointed it out . 
one place i think i did n't take her . 
and , i just kind of let her go , see what she felt like doing . 
if somebody came and she liked them and she went outside with them . 
so , i felt more comfortable at , that place . 
that 's , the true test . 
and she was real comfortable . 
and she has really , really done good . 
it 's hard to tell how much has been that or how much is just her . 
but , she seems to me to be pretty quick and smart 
and she 's already reading and writing and stuff , like that . 
that 's good . 
and she just turned five last month . 
that , is good then . 
i think so . 
i did n't want to rush school at her the whole time , 
but , . . 
especially we 're going to spend the next eighteen years , in school . 
i wanted , to quit my job so i could stay home with her the next five months , because i know she 's going to have to face that . 
and . here we go . 
that 's right . 
i just hate that , 
but . 
so , you do n't have any children . 
do you have any nieces or nephews then ? 
i have a nephew . 
he 's a little brat . 
he goes to a really crummy day school . 
my sister 's not real bright , 
but he 's always sick . 
he has always got some kind of , cold or something . 
and , i do n't know , 
i do n't think this place is a very good place for him . 
it 's just kind of convenient 
and she 's the kind that goes for convenience over anything else . 
that 's a shame . 
i do n't think she checks things out very well . which , really surprises me . 
that 's , scary . 
it is scary . 
i was petrified . 
i know . 
i would be , too . 
i do n't know , 
that 's just it . 
and that 's why i do n't mind paying more . 
i do n't know . 
and that 's one reason i like working up there a little bit is , because i know what 's really going on . 
that 's right . 
i think that 's an ideal situation . 
because at her school as soon as you drive up it 's got a circular type drive . 
they sit 
and they have car callers 
and some kid goes out and gets the kid 
and , it 's time to go . 
at first that always kind of bothered me . 
not bothered me , 
but i thought , i 'd like to see what she 's doing . 
but now that i 'm there it 's a lot more convenient because there 's so many kids that doddle when their parents come , 
and it 's hard to get them out , 
and a lot of parents have places to go and things like that . 
that 's right . 
and it 's late at night , 
so now it does n't bother me at all 
i 'm not sure what the street is , 
is it near country club , 
sixty-six . 
that one that 's , set back in the woods ? 
i 've seen the signs 
that 's it . 
but i 've never actually seen the place itself . 
it 's pretty , set far back , off the road . 
and that 's something i like , too , 
because a lot of those places are , like the one over here on seventy-eight , skaggs . 
that little kinder care , whatever it is ? 
this is on a highway , too . 
there 's a difference . 
i would be scared to death my child might accidentally get out , 
or , if that seems like a real accessible place to where you could go , in and get one . 
that 's right . 
or a car accident . 
and , that was one of the places i had checked out . 
and it was brand new when i checked it out 
and , of course , it was beautiful and , clean and smelled wonderful in there , 
but i 
i did n't base everything on that . 
because that all wears off . 
that 's right . 
that 's exactly right . 
you get some kids in there 
and it 's , over quick . 
but i 've been real pleased , 
knock on wood . 
i 'm scared to death . 
i do n't know , 
i do know why 
because drugs and , everything else 
i would be , too . 
and , they talk about how soon they start that 
and that scares me . 
i know . 
it is scary . 
do they teach them in school right now where she 's at about drugs ? 
they 've had police officers come in and talk to them about it . 
but , of course , they still have no concept of , what in the world drugs are 
and what to do when they 're faced with it . 
but i just think of her , 
next year she 's going to be five , six years old in kindergarten , in same school with ten year olds . 
is n't that , sixth grade , 
and that 's a big gap . 
it is . 
and i can honestly see the peer pressure there . 
and that , just , terrifies me to death . and stuff , 
i can , see it , too . 
those kids getting snatched 
and i 'm probably a little too over protective 
but nowadays you have to be . 
nothing wrong with that . 
you do . 
i do n't think there 's anything wrong with that . 
i was going , how can you be so protective ? 
but , it 's easy now . 
now you understand . 
that 's what i 'm thinking what your mom and dad always used to say , when you have kids of your own , you 'll understand . 
that 's exactly right 
and i do . 
but . 
are you married ? 
are y'all planning on having kids ? 
we 'd like to . 
that 's good . 
because they 're really neat . 
what 's your most recent one that you 've seen ? 
i have n't been to a movie theater in probably eight or nine months , 
so i have n't really seen any movies in the movie theater 
but i rent probably four or five movies a week . 
i used to do that too , 
but i have n't been doing it lately 
we 've got a good video place out here 
and i 'm just trying to think of all the movies i 've recently seen . 
air america . 
i have n't seen that one , 
have you seen wild orchid ? 
is it good ? 
it depends , 
do you like steamy movies . 
i know that sounds funny coming from a woman , 
but usually i do n't . 
what type of movies do you like ? 
action . 
i guess two of my favorite movies is probably lethal weapon and lethal weapon two . 
and those are two of my most favorite , 
they 're just really good movies . 
and i liked bird on a wire . and movies like that . 
do you like suspense movies 
or do you like just action 
what do you mean 
are you talking about movies like die hard two . 
jagged edge , 
jagged edge was a suspenseful one . 
or fatal attraction . 
i liked that , 
that was pretty good . 
that was okay , 
i guess i thought it was too far fetched 
but so many people said it was n't . 
i hope i do n't run across them . 
i do n't know , 
i just did n't find that one to be real , 
i just thought it was too far fetched . 
what was your favorite all time movie ? 
i ca n't think off my head . 
do you know which one yours was ? 
i have to say that probably the one movie that really threw me back the most that i was really the most in shock with was probably star wars . 
when that first came out , i really did not expect the special effects or anything like that . 
out of all the movies , i 've never been as excited to go back . 
i was ready to go back and see it again 
you 're right about that , 
but that 's really an all time classic . 
i do n't think anything could ever beat that . 
i also liked gone with the wind or some of the classic , like the lawrence of arabia . 
i 've never seen that . 
you have n't ? 
should i rent it ? 
should i go rent it tomorrow . 
that 's a real interesting movie 
and it 's got a good historical perspective to it . 
that 's probably something i need to see right now because i 'm taking history in school . 
so it 'd probably be a good thing for me to see . 
actually , i just saw a movie called the lost capone . 
and it 's about al capone 's brothers . 
primarily one of his brothers , 
and i wo n't give the whole plot away 
but it 's really a good movie . 
al capone had three brothers , 
and one of them was lost for many , many years 
and he turns out to be a law man . 
it 's really interesting 
you just gave it away , 
i guess i ca n't go see it , 
that 's okay , 
i did n't give away the whole thing , 
i just gave away just enough to get you interested . 
that does sound good , 
i guess it 's a rental . 
it is . 
i may have to do that . go see it , 
or go rent it . 
i 've seen all of james dean 's movies . all of mae west 's movies . 
i guess you could do that get all of david carradine 's movies , or segal , 
what 's his first name . 
i ca n't remember his first name . 
it 's not david is it ? 
is it david segal . 
i do n't know , 
he was on , arsenio , just recently . 
i do n't watch that . 
it was really kind of interesting because , arsenio was asking him about what he thought of one of the other action guys . 
i ca n't even remember the name . 
he said he would n't really talk about it . 
did n't want to talk about him because he did n't think he was such a good action guy . 
it was n't stallone , 
i ca n't remember . 
i ca n't remember the guy 's name . 
but i like all the rambo movies . 
that 's one side of the action that i did n't really care for 
but i do n't really like sylvester stallone . 
i do n't think he 's really a very good actor . 
i know that sounds awful because so many people think he 's so wonderful 
but i just have never been a stallone fan . 
adrian . 
that 's pretty good . 
i do n't know , 
i just have never seen any interest in him , 
we actually rent probably a good combination of movies with the exception of horror films . 
do n't watch really very many horror films at all . 
i do n't either . 
i do n't know , 
there 's something about people coming up through the sofa to get you , or something coming out of the t v that just does n't make my day . 
you 're right . 
i guess , i 'm a realist , 
and so , when i watch movies like that , it 's this can not happen . 
so , i just do n't enjoy it because it 's just come on , give me a break . 
and so many of them are done so poorly , 
it just does n't even give you the effect , 
some of them are done good 
and they do scare you . 
i do n't know , 
i 'm not really into those . 
i just saw a really interesting movie called flatliners . 
that was one of my favorites , 
i thought that was a very good movie . 
i was really impressed with that one . 
what i liked about it was that it was a new subject . 
nobody had ever touched it before . 
and it was done so well , 
students might try to do it . 
and it 's not like there 's a lot of scientific data on it . 
that 's probably true . 
but it was a very good movie . 
it was done real well too . 
there was n't any part of it that you really felt this ca n't happen . 
it seemed real , 
it was really good . 
it 's not my all time favorite movie 
but it was good , 
it was really good . 
and i do n't know if you like this kind , 
but i thought pretty woman was a really good movie , too . 
that was a great movie . 
we 've seen that two or three times . 
we waited 
and we rented it , 
but it was really good . 
have you seen shrimp on the barby ? 
i have n't , 
i do n't know if i 've even heard of that one . 
it must have what 's his name in it . 
it does n't , 
hogan ? 
paul hogan . 
i 'm surprised . 
it 's got cheech marin . 
that must be pretty good then , 
was it good . 
it is , 
it 's kind of a poor man 's pretty woman in reverse . 
but it was kind of cute . 
actually did you see dirty rotten scoundrels ? 
i though that was a really cute movie , 
i enjoyed that . 
it was . 
twins was good too , 
there was another one , 
dances with wolves , have you seen that yet ? 
i have n't . 
you 've got to see that one , 
that 's probably true , 
that 's probably true . 
it 's very , very good . 
very good . 
i was really glad when it won all those awards because it really deserved it . 
my wife has got a picture from kevin costner 
and he signed it . 
it 's from dances with wolves . 
and he signed it . 
he happens to be a friend of one of her business associates . or , not a friend , a cousin . 
that 's impressive . 
but we got a nice picture 
and it came in an envelope that says dances with wolves 
so we 've got to try to get out there and see that one . 
it 's really worth it . 
it 's a very good movie 
and i would suggest seeing it at the theater . 
i know that they 're still playing it 
and they pushed it back , to playing it in the theaters until august , 
i , think because they were scheduling a video release of it in july 
and then when it won all those awards they pushed it back to august , 
but 
that one is definitely worth seeing , 
it 's really good . 
did you see driving miss daisy ? 
and i did n't think that one was near as good . 
i guess it was okay , 
it was all right , 
i do n't know . 
there was a crime here in mckinney a rather heinous murder . 
there was no remorse shown by at least one of the perpetrators . 
and yet , for whatever reason his crime was not considered a capital crime . 
and quite honestly i feel very strongly that the , man has no redeeming social values 
and if and when he gets free again , he will have no compunction but to continue that same kind of lifestyle , and perhaps do the same thing again . 
so , it really bothers me that there 's not a way of getting him out of the way forever . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't think our prison system is n't set up , where we rehabilitate , or restore anybody . 
i think it 'll only make them worse , 
but , i believe that god can come in and change a person 's heart and genuinely change it , 
but , that does n't negate that you do reap what you sow . 
and if you do kill a person and you 're found to be guilty , i believe god establishes the authority of our court system 
and i do believe that capital punishment is , uh , alternative . 
even god can still change your heart 
like the alcoholic that charges up all the bills on the credit card , or the shopaholic you get your life right with god 
but you still have to pay your visa bill . 
that 's right . 
you still have to , 
but god sent us his grace 
and they give pardons 
and those prison people they know a genuine turnaround in a person 's character , 
they see that . 
and , i worked in a prison in fort worth . 
did you ? 
i have a degree in social work . 
you see it the ones that have a genuine character change . 
it is obvious . 
and they know that . 
they 're not going to pardon someone from the governor , 
you know what i 'm saying , 
they 're not going to go , without going through every channel of authority in the prison . 
so i feel like there is occasions where they do spare lives 
and i leave that with the governor , who , of course , is going to go through every authority because they want to be reelected , 
punishment . 
thank you , 
i 'm sorry , 
i just got home from work 
and i 'm just kind of spaced out a little bit . 
that 's okay . 
i agree with you that , a person 's heart can be changed , 
but the same god that can work that miracle also established the laws that said for certain kinds of sin , certain kinds of , breaking of the law , there would be a capital punishment . 
right then it was , almost immediate . 
as soon as the trial was over , then it was stoning . 
we do n't have a speedy trial , 
we do n't have speedy punishment 
and so it kind of loses its meaning , if you sit on death row for months and years and so forth . 
we do n't , 
we definitely have lost the judeo-christian ethic of the judicial system for sure , 
but the base is still there , 
the foundation is still there , though , of the system , 
but , i know what you 're saying , 
but also , they 're under a law , because we have n't been removed from the law 
we 've just been taken out from under a law . 
because under the law if your child back talks you , he would be stoned . 
that 's correct . 
under the law he would be stoned , 
so we 've been removed from being under the law 
but we 're still accountable to it . 
we do n't need to back talk , 
but it 's like god changes your heart to not do that . 
he changes your heart not to look upon a woman in lust . 
because in the old testament , they could look all they wanted , just could n't do it . 
but in the new , he 's looking at your heart 
and so , i guess that 's what i mean by their character changes 
and what i mean , it 's like looking beyond what they 're doing and looking at a heart and seeing what is the heart , what 's the character showing me here . 
i believe crimes against children should be punished by death sexual crimes , unless there 's a true change of character . 
i tend to agree on that , very strongly . 
and that 's where we just have to trust the authorities . 
and they 're not going to excuse people , if it was run like that , 
there would probably be very few exceptions to that 
and if it was done quickly and done swiftly 
, because the judicial system they 've rejected the answer to all these problems they have , pretty much . 
plus all the judicial system is overloaded with , all kinds of problems , and crimes and so forth and then all of the civil things that clog the courts , 
and having sat on both uh , criminal and a civil jury , some of what goes through our courts is a total waste of time . 
because we 're suit happy . 
but back to the capital situation , sounds like you and i have a lot of , common ground at least as far as capital punishment is concerned . 
i would like to see some kind of reform , or some kind of streamlining so that , if a person is convicted , and sentenced to death , that automatic appeal which goes in could be more quickly dealt with . 
and go ahead and get the punishment phase out of the way , because it does n't do the criminal or the victim 's family , any of us , the taxpayer any good to have him sitting around for months and years . 
anybody , 
him could be a her . 
i know that they have crimes punishable by death , 
and i 'm sure they hit a few every now and then , 
and i would n't want to be one of them , that are not guilty . 
but , i know that they have their , crime rate , 
it 's not jamaica , i do n't think , 
i ca n't remember which , 
it 's one of the caribbean islands 
and singapore , is it like that ? 
my husband 's going . 
and they do n't have a lot of the crime because there is a law 
and the law is enforced . 
and that 's when you have lawlessness , 
the law 's not being enforced 
and all that does is lawlessness . 
we went on a mission trip to manhattan and to the bronx and stuff , two years ago , 
and all these kids were up on there getting arrested for crack 
we were across from that big bus station , 
i forget what you call it , 
but and they had fifteen people lined up on the fence 
and within two hours , there were fifteen boys sitting there doing the same thing . 
and , you 'd see the same kid who were back out there in two days . 
that 's sad . 
because , the answer is not being given to them , in the court system 
and i think initially , when our country was set up , it was set up with god 
and it was really an integral part , 
and 
you ca n't force people , 
but i think people are hurting 
and they 're out doing crack sitting on the street . 
they were the kind of people that mostly , we would want to receive it . if it was presented to see . 
i do n't know , 
i guess , i 'm kind of frustrated that we 've gotten away from the christian basis that our court system was founded upon . 
it reeks of the bible , just , the whole system . 
you know what i mean . 
i feel like that might be better , if it was run on a more scriptural basis , which would include expediting the penalties and just getting it over with . 
however , certain very liberal minded groups who do not subscribe to the same ethical system that you and i do , such as the civil liberties unions and so forth , will lobby against that and hold that out as long as they have breath . which is most unfortunate because we all lose out , when people go so far out to the extreme , on either side . 
because too , too often , there can be extremism that hurts from any direction , regardless of whatever you 're arguing or concerned about . 
i know , 
you 're right , 
they would lobby that 
and i see that , 
and that 's why i 'm what 's my role in this thing , what 's my part , 
because i do n't think the system is going to get fixed . 
i think it 's crippled ... 
do you go camping very much ? 
i have n't gone camping in years . 
but it is something that i 've done in the past . 
how about you ? 
we try to go once , maybe twice a summer . just for a short weekend or something . 
that 's pretty average to me . 
we do n't go for the week long thing . 
but we usually go to a lake area where the campsites , are and do that . 
do you tent camp 
or do you have a camper ? 
a tent . 
that 's how i camp too . 
that 's how i define camping . 
me too . 
you 're really roughing it . 
the rest of that is really not the same . 
as a matter of fact , the majority of the amount of camping i 've done has been really roughing it . 
as a little girl i 'd go with my dad and my uncle and my brother , 
and we went to the boundary waters area in minnesota . 
so , that 's really wild . 
are you here in local texas , 
i 'm in austin , 
where are you ? 
i 'm in garland . 
right outside of dallas . 
so we have a five year old , 
and she was pretty young when we started camping with her . 
the kids love it . 
i know . 
they just love it . 
it 's wonderful for them to be outside . 
i know , 
there 's no t v , 
and they do n't have all these modern toys , 
and they have to use sticks and rocks and stuff like , that to play with . 
and i like that . 
it 's pretty fun . 
it really is a good family thing , to do . 
we try to go with another couple that have children also . 
and that makes it a lot more enjoyable . 
plus we do n't have to go out and buy all the equipment and stuff , 
we kind of split it up . 
good planning . 
because it really does get expensive if you do n't want to rough it all the way . 
even the sleeping bags , those are running a good thirty dollars a pop , 
and so we 've built that up . 
you 're right . 
do you have a boat ? 
want one bad . 
do you ? 
actually , you know what i would love ? 
i would absolutely love a sail boat . 
that does n't go along with camping , 
but that 's what i would like , to have . 
i would too . 
would too . 
let 's see , 
we try to go to a lake . 
my husband and this other couple that we go with , her husband kind of likes scuba dive ? 
and , so we 'll go to a lake where they can go do that . 
we 're close enough so they can do that , 
and the girls can play on the beach area . 
and i would play on the beach area too . 
that 's what i would do . 
that 's fun . 
i 'm just sitting here listening to your accent and thinking what a good time the computer is going to have with that . 
am i pretty texan ? 
you 're pretty texan . 
but you know what 's really funny ? 
i 've had people tell me that i have a texas accent , 
and there is just no way i 've not picked one up . 
you do n't sound like it to me . 
i 've only lived here about six years . 
have you ? 
so , if i have one , it must be very , very slight . 
the yankees can hear it . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
i do n't think i do , 
i have more of a twang , to my voice . 
are you a native texan ? 
i sure am . 
i 've lived here all my life . 
good for you . 
have you ever been to austin ? 
we went last summer , actually . 
this , 
i 'm wondering , 
i 'm really not familiar . 
i know there are some good places to go camping along the lakes . 
is there ? 
we did n't go camping , 
we drove down to houston to visit friends , 
so we did n't go camping . 
that would be fun though to go . 
that 's one thing my husband wanted to do , on this summer 's vacation was to go and camp wherever we went . 
and i said , i 'd love that 
it takes a lot more planning . 
it does , 
and ever once on my week-long vacation , i , want to be a little bit pampered by a , hotel and a waiter . 
so , we 're hoping to do a three day weekend . 
there 's a thing called pfeiffer rim . 
i do n't know if you have ever heard of it ? 
i have n't . 
there 's a town called glenrose . 
i think it 's around two hours from here . 
and it has dinosaur tracks , and stuff like that 
that sounds great . 
and it 's got one of those wildlife parks . 
i think that 'll be fun . 
so we 're going to try to do that on a three day weekend , go there 
have you ever camped out of state ? 
i have n't . 
where you should try , sometime is colorado . 
where at ? 
it is beautiful . 
is it ? 
absolutely beautiful . 
i 've just been up there skiing , 
and we 've driven through , but not camping or anything . 
but i would love to camp , in the mountains . 
estes state park is fantastic . 
that 's what my girlfriend says . 
she loves that place . 
you need to go there . 
she loves that . 
it 's high canyon 
and there 's this little mountain lakes 
and it 's very peaceful . 
i ca n't remember what type of trees they are , 
but all the leaves turn yellow , 
and it 's just brilliant . 
i love that . 
you would . 
you 'd like it very much . 
that 's neat . 
that 's neat . 
i know you would . 
i used to go camping all the time as a girl scout . 
i was too . 
all the time . 
i got real used to it then . 
i felt like we roughed it then . 
we did , 
we really did . 
it 's not camping . 
we had to make the fires and dig latrines and everything . 
that is it . 
you have to get poison ivy and all that good stuff , to really be camping . 
you say you have n't been in years ? 
i have n't . 
i 'm a struggling single mom . 
bless your heart . 
thank you . 
time is precious , 
money 's precious . 
i think i have n't been able to do it , 
and that was one of the things i really thought i 'd like to do with my children again . 
and i 'm a little bit fearful of trying that just women . 
i do n't blame you . 
you know ? 
i do n't blame you at all . 
years ago it would have been fine 
i have gone on one little vacation , just the girls and i . 
we drove down to port aransas , and rented a little efficiency and had a marvelous two nights , 
and that was great . 
and even at that , it was the first time that i ventured out of the city by myself . 
and , i stayed in a nice place . 
but it 's real different not to have another adult with you . 
you know . 
i can imagine . 
i 'm just a chicken . 
i know lots of women would do it all the time . 
i do n't blame you , not nowadays . 
i have n't quite adjusted ? 
are you with t i down there ? 
i was with t i until january . 
i left t i in january hoping to strike out and find a job where i could make some money . 
so it was a good plan 
but i have n't yet . 
have you ? . 
i got into sales , 
and , i 'm selling telephone systems . 
that 's neat . 
and it 's fun 
and it 's interesting , 
but it 's also pretty challenging , 
and i have n't started making money yet . 
. it 's hard is n't it ? 
so 
it 's hard . 
how old are your girls ? 
eleven and fourteen . 
so i 'm old . 
you 're not old . 
you 're not old at all . 
excuse me just second . 
go ahead . 
there 's someone at the door . 
do you need to go ? 
i 'm going to listen . 
we always check and see if we should answer the door , at night . 
that 's very smart . 
so i 've enjoyed this . 
me too . 
and good luck . 
how many have you made so far , calls ? 
i have n't made any . 
i 've been just a recipient . 
have you ? 
this is only about my second one i 've ever made . 
i 've been a recipient on the others . 
how many have you had so far , 
do you know ? 
i think i 've had about four . 
four , 
that 's good . 
very good . 
that 's four each . 
this is my gemini nature , 
it 's like what are you interested in , 
and it 's virtually anything . 
i 'll talk about anything to anybody . 
i do n't , 
you bet , 
you bet . 
and it 's been real interesting , the different personalities . that i run across . 
i know . 
i always try to find out where they 're from , 
because it is neat . 
it really is . 
then , i guess i 'll let you go so you can go get the door 
thank you . 
and i enjoyed talking with you . 
me too . 
you have a good time camping , 
when you go next time , think of me . 
thank you . 
go ahead . 
i usually do n't get to hear any of the current events probably until about the ten o'clock news . 
by the time you get off work , go by and pick up the baby from the baby sitter , it 's after six 
and by the time everything is settled in , it 's ten o'clock before i can catch up on anything . 
i guess that 's the way i am too . 
sometimes i hear some things on the radio . 
i only get the newspaper on the weekends 
i do n't even have , time to read the newspaper except in passing , 
i 'll look over my husband 's shoulder and see what 's going on . 
i guess occasionally i 'll hear someone at work say something though . 
we have a news thing on the computer that i 'll try to look at every day . 
and it 's pretty much headline news . 
which is n't pretty much what we look for anyway . 
what do you think about it ? 
i guess it 's pretty good . 
there 's a lot of pressure in that business to , borderline at that . 
there 's a lot of competition in the media . 
and sometimes i think it too much trying to figure out who 's going to get the best headlines . and that they 'll run a topic into the ground . 
and they try to play public 's opinion . which i think is awful , because it usually works . 
i 'll bet that was the case of the war in the middle east . 
that , 
lots of new newsmen were created during that 
so , it will be interesting to see what happens . 
trying to think what else . is current . 
i do n't know what to say . 
that 's a bad one , 
looks like we 're going to have an income tax in texas , 
i hate to see that , 
we can deduct that from our federal income tax . 
but we need good schools . 
we 're more involved in that now . 
and , i think it 's better for everybody if we had better schools . 
that 's true . 
i would think they could find a better way to fund it though , 
i wish they could have gotten a lottery . 
they 're struggling with it . 
i think the lottery could have helped , with that . 
it would n't have been as painful as what we would 've paid in state income tax . 
probably would have paid the same amount 
but it 's not the idea of your paying income tax . 
i 'm not sure there 's a positive solution for that . 
it 'll be interesting to see what happens . 
trying to think what else is current . 
i have n't seen the news in a couple of days . 
i 'm a little behind on things . 
the other thing i can think of is what is still going on in iraq and the kurd refugees . 
that 's sad . 
they had to choose between the better of the two bad situations , 
and i do n't know what i would have done in the situation . 
it begins to make you wonder why we did n't go ahead and go on in and , finish the job while we were in there . 
but i understand why bush does n't want to go in and take sides . 
because that would definitely look like another korea , 
and he 'd have all these people jumping down his back , even though i 'd agree with it . 
i think he should 've gone in there and blew them away . 
seems to have helped him though , popularity wise . 
it did a lot . 
he did a real good job i believe . 
i have in-laws that live in saudi arabia that stayed there during all of it too . 
so we kept very much abreast of what was going on . 
they were near , dahran . on the east coast . 
they were just north of it . probably about a , hundred miles from the kuwaiti border . 
and they stayed active . 
it was a new situation . 
i 'll bet . 
i do n't really have much more to say . 
i do n't know anything else that 's current other than the weather 
you 're right , 
and that 's awful in texas . 
have you all been getting rain storms down there ? 
we got some awful rain the other morning . 
and today 's just been real drizzly . 
we did last night . 
some real massive thunderstorms . 
apparently , i do n't know if it was just the strong winds or some small tornadoes up this way too . 
caused some damage . 
it did ? 
we may get some more tonight . 
. we 've just got slight chances of rain . 
but we had the hard thunderstorms the other morning . course while everybody was getting ready to go to work . making nice traffic jams . 
the ground here is so flat , 
and it 's all saturated now , 
we 're getting some flooding . 
last week , we had all the rain ? 
i think we had about eight inches . 
it was between six and eight inches here where we are . 
and you walk out on the ground , 
it 's awful . 
it 's just so soggy . 
it 's a lot more humid down that way . 
in fact , miserable . 
today the air was just so sticky , so damp . 
i think there were places around downtown fort worth last night they got three inches in a real short period of time , like an hour or so just , a bunch . 
i guess that 's it . 
that 's about as much as we can do with current events . 
it was nice talking to you . 
good talking to you , michelle . 
the public school systems everybody has known they 've needed renovation for years , but never really had a clear direction on which way to go with it . 
the first direction that i would love to see them go with . 
kids learn at different rates 
and for too long they 've kind of lumped everybody together . 
you 'd learn at this rate 
and that 's the only way it 's going to happen . 
that 's true . 
you 've got some kids that 'll pick up on it in the first three minutes you 're talking about it , 
and the other fifty-seven minutes you 've been talking about a subject , you 've bored them . 
that 's very true . 
i guess i can relate to that , because i have two kids that are opposites like that . 
one picks up real quick 
and the other one does n't . 
and you 're right , 
they do get bored really fast , if they already know what you 're talking about . 
what do you propose that they do ? 
what is your suggestions ? 
the educators need to be a little bit more open minded as well as innovative in dealing with the various students to get the maximum potential out of the person . 
out of each child . 
out of each child . 
each individual child . 
some kids are going to be great with mechanical stuff . 
other kids are going to be really into math , 
some are really going to be heavy into reading . 
instead of pushing the scales too far either direction it 's great to be well rounded and be exposed to all this stuff . 
but why not hit the points the kid 's really interested in ? 
because if he 's interested , he 's going to study it , 
and he 's going to learn it , 
and he 's going to remember it . 
that 's true . 
i think the only thing that they would argue about that , is that every child needs to learn every subject . 
that might be the only thing . 
but i definitely agree with you . 
they need exposure to every subject . 
they do n't need to be masters of it , 
that 's true . 
everything i learned about ancient rome has not helped me anywhere in , my adult life . 
i definitely agree . 
there 's no doubt about that . 
i can relate to that because i 'm going to college right now , 
i 'm taking this history class . 
and it 's so boring , 
and i just hate it . 
and i think , why do they make us take this stuff ? 
what does this have to do with getting a computer science degree or whatever ? 
what type of history class is it that you 're having to take ? 
american history . 
we have to take early seventeen hundreds through mid eighteen hundreds . 
and then we have to take another one that 's mid eighteen hundreds on up , to basically present . 
the early ones they could actually combine two , levels of it , the one from seventeen hundred til the end of the civil war . 
combine that into one . 
and then from eighteen sixty-five to present , 
and make that your second step because , to a point the early parts of it , you 're giving the foundations of the nation 
that 's , basically what they 're doing . 
but even then they 're skimming over , 
they 're almost trivial with it . 
i agree . 
they were great men , 
and they 're the father of the country and all this . 
he had just as much dirt on him as anybody else . 
if not more . 
the man was not a saint . 
that 's true , 
i tell you , 
i saw something on the news maybe two weeks ago . 
i do n't know where you 're from , 
but i 'm from the dallas area . 
and they were talking about the plano school system , that , they had one school that if the students did something wrong whether it was behavioral or they were n't learning properly or something . they took these students and put them basically in a closet . with no windows . 
they had , not a table , but a desk in this closet , 
and they had to sit in there by themselves . 
parents were getting really angry about this , because they said , why is my child being put in this closet . 
how is that helping my child . 
they said , we 're giving them isolation time 
and this helps them to think . 
if a child has claustrophobia that 's just going to terrify him 
if the isolation concept really works that good , why are our prisons overcrowded ? 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
but 
i definitely agree with parents . 
i think that is a very wrong way to handle disciplining a child . 
putting them in their quiet rooms or their isolation rooms . 
they did n't call them closets . 
but they showed these rooms on the news 
and they looked like a closet to me with a desk in it , real small . 
but they said that one of the solutions they came up with was to take the doors off of these isolation rooms . 
i said , how is this helping ? 
either way i definitely had to disagree with that . 
i think that 's not the way to discipline a child by putting him in a closet . 
when i was brought up , if you crossed the line and you broke a rule bad enough , you were going to get spanked . 
then the extreme came in , 
and now we can no longer , spank them , 
so we now isolate them . 
we 've swung the pendulum both ways . 
let 's find a middle ground . 
there has to be some sort of discipline , 
and there has to be some sort of punishment . short of physically isolating the child , and short of physically hitting the child . 
let 's put him into a situation where , you crossed the line , 
you broke the rule , 
you 're going to have to pay for it . 
but , it 's going to tax you physically . 
that 's true . 
the kid 's having to give up his , quote , play time to pay his debt for what he did wrong . 
but he 's seeing something constructive come out of it . 
but 
for instance , one of the things they do at my kids school they have what they call caught being good slips . 
and when the kids are in halls and stuff , and if they 're being really good just being excellent , they 're not cutting up and so on . they 're just standing in line , doing whatever they are supposed to , they get one of these caught being good slips . 
and then , when they collect them at the end of each week , they get to go to , what they call their caught being good store , 
and then they get to spend these like money . 
to me , that positive reinforcement , is much better than trying to find ways to discipline kids , because they 're going to be good and try and earn those things to get the positive part of it . 
they 'd much rather go in the store and buy something than be spanked . 
so , they 're definitely going to work towards being good rather than trying to act up and be bad . 
i think that not only applies inside the public school system , but in society itself . 
there 's been too much negative reinforcement . 
how about , just the john q citizen out there on the street ? 
that 's true . 
my kids definitely get spanked when they need to be spanked . 
but i really do try to use positive reinforcement with them at home , also . 
and it really helps . 
and they do n't get spanked very often , 
but they do when they deserve it . 
but i do n't think any kid should be exempt from being spanked . 
i think i would n't mind if a teacher spanked my child . 
but that 's just my personal opinion , 
i do n't think that law will ever change . 
they are never going to let a teacher spank a child again . 
some kids do n't get spanked at home 
and some kids need to be spanked at home . 
do n't you think ? 
i , most wholeheartedly agree . 
but i do n't know . 
there 's a point of over kill , 
but somewhere you 've got to find an even line . 
there 's so many parents that say , you can deal with a child without spanking them . which is true , 
you can . 
but there are times when a child needs to be spanked . 
they do things that they need that . 
need that shock effect , where they equate the shock of being spanked with the actions they did to get spanked . 
the topic is hobbies . 
in your spare time . 
who has spare time ? 
i do n't really do any handicraft things like that . 
i used to . 
i used to do salt ornaments and things . 
but that was good many years ago 
my spare time 
i usually go do aerobics and read , 
and that 's , about it . 
i understood that . 
i work full time 
and i have two kids 
so my spare time usually involves something with the kids . 
hobbies , 
i ca n't really say that we have hobbies . 
it 's more like maybe projects or something on the weekend . 
we like to , go out , 
family . 
that 's what i meant by salt that we did that as a family , little ornaments and , things like that , and just kind of really got into it . during the christmas season , making them up for other people and things like that . 
i 've just never been very skilled at needle , work cloths . 
and the things i 've tried to do just do n't look very good , 
i guess mostly as far as crafts go , i 've done some needlepoint . 
i 've done mostly cross stitching . 
they 're plaques with different kind of animals 
and then you have their birth date on them , 
and then you have a little picture of them 
and you frame them and stuff , 
but nothing steady . 
just when i get some spare time here and there i 'll work on it , 
it 's not , like you sit and knit every night . 
not at all . 
i do n't even know how to knit 
and my mother used to knit all the time 
and i do n't even know how to knit , 
i 'm that 's a lost art from this family . 
but , it 's not a very good topic 
i have seen things i really like , that were done , especially like needlepoint . 
needlepoint , cushions and things . 
it seems like it 's easier just to go out and buy it already made . 
i do n't know what , , it 's like there , 
but here a lot of the country stuff is in a lot of the woodwork , a lot of stenciling . 
and you can go to a flea market and stuff 
and there 's just tons of stuff everywhere 
and people just do it in their garage 
and then on weekends they go out and sell it 
and during the week they go back and do some more . 
and they make it cheaper for us to buy . 
and , i 'm sure it must be relaxing to do things like that because i can remember when i used to do those figurines and things . 
it was relaxing creative , 
you felt very creative . 
but , it just was so much time involved and the different steps and things . 
i think we 're okay . 
i think we did the five minutes , 
so we do n't have to keep talking about nothing anymore . 
thank you . 
i hope you have a good rest of your weekend . 
this is a good subject , is n't it ? 
it 's something that you can really talk about . 
i do n't know what we 're going to do about it , 
but it 's certainly something that has a lot of things to talk about . 
when they say the middle east , it 's such a big area 
and there 's so many different problems there . 
what do you want to concentrate on . 
it does n't matter to me . 
i 'll tell you something , 
i have a sister-in-law from israel , 
and they 're really quite arrogant about it all . 
they believe that they belong there 
and they 've belonged there forever , 
they consider them second class . 
they 're really quite arrogant about it . 
i do n't know if that contributes to the problem . 
how did they feel about the united states intervening with patriot missiles , 
i 'm sure this is the one time that the israelis are really happy to have their big brothers , the americans , 
but , i did n't really talk about that with her . 
my sister-in-law now lives in switzerland . 
the palestinians , they come in 
, and they 're nothing but really servants for them , 
and they really treat them like second class citizens . 
they do n't really want them around 
but they like them around because they do all the menial labor and such . 
but they really do , 
they look down on them . 
and , i do n't know , 
i live in vermont 
and being up here we pretty much treat everybody as someone that has merit , even if they 're poor , or if they 're hispanic or if they 're black . 
we give everybody pretty much the benefit of a doubt because we do n't see all the crime and , all the hurt in the big cities . 
if i lived in washington , d c i think i 'd have a different attitude about black people 
because i 've heard that they 're terrible , 
it 's just like it 's a dog eat dog world . 
and here all my black friends are professionals 
and they do n't go out and abuse drugs 
and they send their kids to school 
and they really encourage them to go to college and stuff . 
so it 's just a different world . 
i live in san antonio 
and fifty percent of the population is minority . 
i talked to someone about san antonio , 
and they said that you have quite the problem with the ghettos , 
i do n't know , 
do they call it the barrio down there . 
that 's the barrios 
but i do n't think it 's any different of a problem than any other major city . 
it 's just hispanics here instead of blacks . 
but i heard that it just has a really bad problem . 
i grew up outside of houston 
and as far as gang violence and things , i do n't think it 's any worse here than in houston . 
houston . 
me not even knowing anything about houston , i would think that it 's a pretty calm city . 
houston is not at all . 
there 's a lot of crime ? 
there 's quite a bit of crime . 
we 're so protected up here , 
it 's really strange . 
our red light district you could go walking around down there and pretty much not fear for your life , 
and we 're just so protected . 
but , over in the mid east , especially israel , it 's just like israelis have a totalitarian system , when it comes to the palestinians . 
the israelis can do anything they want 
but when it comes to palestinians , if they 're out in the street at night , it 's really looked on as odd . 
usually they 're bussed in to the , jewish neighborhoods , and the jewish cities 
and then at night they 're bussed out to the occupied territories . 
so they do n't have that . 
but what do you think about the mess we 've created in iraq ? 
i think it 's unfortunate as far as the kurds are concerned , 
it 's just what do you do for them , 
you want to do something for them , 
but you do n't want to get so directly involved that you 're occupying the country . 
we ca n't get involved in their civil war unfortunately , 
but we 've kind of driven these people out . 
to do it , 
but president bush is telling them rebel uprise . 
and that 's what they did 
and now they 're asking him for help 
and he 's we ca n't get involved . 
my husband had very strong feelings , 
he agreed with the general schwartzkopf , 
he said bush should have let him finish his job . 
he should have let them corner the republican guards , 
i think the war ended too soon . 
that 's what everyone says . 
it 's real easy to say that . 
we did n't damage enough of their arsenal . 
we damaged most of it 
but we should have made sure we got everything . 
i do n't think the higher ups were thinking about what this guy 's going to do with the rest of his war machine . 
they 're going , it 's not going to hurt us 
so we 're just going to let them go , 
unfortunately though , the original goal of the mission was to drive them out of kuwait . 
they stuck right to their goals , 
what they were going to say . 
and the american people , when this first started , they were even reluctant to let them do that . 
they were playing it very safe , 
what do they say , 
an ounce of hind sight is worth , whatever . 
schwartzkopf knew what had to be done 
and it 's too bad that he just did n't have the ability just to do it the go ahead to do it . 
he knew what was going to happen , more than any of us . 
because i did n't realize that it was going to make such a mess . 
i feel really sorry for these people , 
these people are middle class people , just like us . 
can you imagine if someone started bombing your neighborhood , 
and you knew this , 
these people are going to come 
and if you were in your house they were going to take you and beat you . 
of course , you 're just going 
and you 're going to run . 
and it 's just too bad that we could n't see that . 
i just have a feeling that the military involvement is n't over yet . that i still feel like there 's more to come . 
i do n't think this whole issue is settled as far as we 're concerned . 
you know what i was hoping ? 
i was hoping iran was going to take a very dramatic stand and invade , 
and then iran 's the big bad guy , 
they 've got sixty or so of iraq 's planes . 
i know , 
it 's like they were using them as friends when we were having the conflict 
but , i almost swear , i 'm kind of disappointed with the iranians , 
i know the shiites are their people . 
but , i do n't know , 
i think they have a bond with the kurds . 
there are some kurds living in iran . 
i think they should have just done more , 
and maybe if the world could have given them some type of aid . 
it 's just so complicated . 
i was real surprised that israel stayed out of it as much as they did . 
i do n't know , 
almost compare them to a very egotistical man . 
you 're damn right , 
i 'm going to protect my family , 
so , i was amazed too . 
i was really , proud of them , though , that they stayed out of it . 
from what i can tell if they had gotten into it , it would have started a whole new war . 
that part scared me . 
that , the egyptians would pull out 
and i just saw atomic bomb , 
do you want to start ? 
i 'm trying to think what i 've seen lately . 
we just finished watching teenage mutant ninja turtles on tape . 
did you watch dances with wolves , 
did you see the movie ? 
we 've seen that , 
did you like it ? 
it was great , 
have you seen it ? 
i thought it was very well done . 
how about ghost ? 
an , we liked it 
but i did n't think it was as good as all the hype was about it . 
i feel the same way about that too . 
it was okay . 
i could n't see it worth getting a nomination for best picture . 
let 's see , 
the most recent ones that i 've seen are those two , ghost and dances with wolves , 
but i rent videos , 
do you ? 
you watch many ? 
do you like the classics like gone with the wind and the older movies . 
i 'd like to see those , 
there 's three movies that i keep telling myself that i should see one of these , some day that i have n't seen that are classics . 
because i 've never seen citizen kane , 
that was good . 
and i 've never seen casablanca and never seen gone with the wind . 
and the maltese falcon and all those 
we saw part of the african queen on t v a couple of years ago , 
that was good , 
and i 've been wanting to see all of it 
but we walk into the video store 
and we 're why do n't we go see this now , 
it 's true . 
one of the movies we saw recently , we saw misery . 
i did n't see that one . 
that was good , 
it was great . 
you think , because it was by stephen king it would be really gory 
there 's a couple scenes , at the end 
there is , some blood and everything 
and there 's one really bad scene where there 's not blood but it 's pretty graphic . 
but it 's a really good movie . 
is that the one where the guy gets captured by that women ? 
he 's a writer 
and she 's his biggest fan 
and she 's also , a little on the nutso side . 
did you see pacific heights ? 
we have n't , 
i saw that one , 
that one was n't that great either . 
it was n't ? 
i did n't think so , 
i heard mixed reviews of that , 
how about silence of the lambs ? 
that 's on our list of things to see . 
i know , 
i was curious if you had seen it 
our big thing is movie prices up here 
i think it 's six bucks now in the theaters , 
a lot of things we try to catch at the dollar theater or matinees 
and then a lot of other stuff we just wait until it comes out on tape . 
that 's us too , 
true . 
i know , 
it 's too bad that they 've gotten so expensive . 
one movie we saw in the last couple of months that we really enjoyed was edward scissorhands . 
have you seen that ? 
it was great . 
it was , 
it 's an odd film 
i like the director a lot a guy named tim burton . 
did you ever see the movie beetlejuice ? 
part of it , 
i never really watched the whole thing . 
if you liked beetlejuice you 'll probably like edward scissorhands , 
if you did n't like beetlejuice you probably wo n't like edward scissorhands . 
he 's , a very odd man 
i think he 's very interesting 
and i liked those two movies of his a lot . 
that was pretty good , though , really . 
it was good , 
when you think of what it takes to make some of those kind of movies . 
you see it for a couple of hours or an hour 
there 's a lot in it when you look at the scenery and the cars , and all the different stuff like that . 
who 's your favorite actress or actor ? 
do n't really know , 
i like costner a lot 
but i 'm a big baseball fan 
that was good , 
i saw that movie too . 
that was very good . 
which one ? 
field of dreams . 
field of dreams was good , 
and , i think , i liked the other movies he 's done . 
no way out was really good 
did you ever see silverado ? 
silverado , 
who was that with ? 
let 's see . 
danny glover , scott glen , kevin kline brian dennehy , 
john kreas is in it if you do n't blink . 
the title sounds familiar , 
it was a big western , 
i think roseanne arquett was in it too , another one that if you blink you 'd miss her . 
and i think it was a three hour movie or two and a half hours , 
and it was one of those ones that could have been four hours if they had n't cut a lot out . 
but it was really good . 
i might have seen part of that because the name sounds familiar although i would remember , with him in it . 
how about revenge , 
did you see that with him ? 
i did n't , 
is that any good ? 
with anthony quinn . 
i thought it was , 
i like everything he 's done so far . 
it 's one of those movies that it 's not a great movie 
but it was okay . 
we were in the video store today 
and somebody was recommending it to somebody . 
the people who run the video store was recommending it to somebody else . 
it was not a bad movie . 
i 'll have to catch it one of these days . 
you said you seen no way out ? 
that was excellent . 
that was very good . 
he was in the untouchables , too . 
that 's another one i wanted to see . 
in fact , that was advertised not too long ago . 
cable ? 
it was on one of the networks last weekend . or two weeks ago . 
i know i saw something about it . 
i wish i 'd seen it when , it was originally in the theaters 
and i saw part of it again . 
i like costner , 
i like sean connery , 
and there 's this one actor , 
it 's really silly that i enjoy him a lot 
but i 've really enjoyed him in everything i 've seen him in , a guy named charles martin smith . 
i do n't know him . 
you 've probably seen him 
that 's who the guy is . 
do you remember , 
did you ever see american graffiti ? 
i do n't think so . 
did you ever see the movie star man . 
in star man , he was the guy chasing after jeff bridges and nancy allen . 
short nerdy guy with glasses . 
i do n't know why 
but he 's always a lot of fun in every movie he 's in . 
he was in the untouchables . 
he was the accountant . 
i know who you mean . 
he was in honey do n't shrink the kids , was n't he ? 
you 're thinking of rick moranis . 
he looks like rick moranis 
but he 's not . 
that 's the one i was thinking of . 
but i 've seen quite a few movies , 
i enjoy them . 
i think that it 's kind of good entertainment . an escape type of thing . 
how about some of the ads , 
do you go by the ads when you look at them , or the reviews ? 
do they influence you a lot . 
a review usually wo n't make me go see a movie i had n't already wanted to see . 
did you see goodfellas ? 
i want to see it . 
that was pretty good . 
we want to see godfather part three also 
but my girlfriend 's seen part one and part two although she saw them years ago , 
but i 've never seen either of the godfather movies 
so , we 're probably going to rent those some time and then try to see godfather part three somewhere . 
i was just going to say , you should see those first if you can . 
if you read the book it 's even better . 
the book was excellent . 
i have n't , 
never read it . 
it 's godfather three . 
it was not bad 
but , i expected more , i think . 
it 's got matthew broderick in it and marlon brando . 
and brando does a parody of the character he played in the godfather . 
it 's one of the reasons why the godfather 's been on our minds lately . 
but there 's a bunch of scenes from the godfather that 's used because matthew broderick 's going to film school . 
and in his classes they 're running a bunch of scenes from the godfather 
and then he 's running into marlon brando who is playing this organized crime head . 
so , it was a fun movie . 
how about tom cruise , 
do you like his stuff ? 
cocktails , 
i liked rainman , 
that was good , 
i liked rainman , too . 
being from baltimore , of course , i 'm a big barry levinson fan since he 's done a bunch of baltimore movies . 
barry levinson did diner and tinman , and avalon which are all set in baltimore . 
they sound familiar . 
i probably saw parts of those . 
a lot of times i 'll start watching a movie 
and i 'm tired 
especially if there 's commercial in it . 
and then the titles might sound familiar 
but i really do n't know what they 're all about . 
of the three of those , diner 's probably the best . 
they 're all pretty good , 
but diner is really worth seeing . 
is that the one set in the fifties , or sixties . 
late fifties , 
late fifties , 
i think i saw that one . 
how about meryl streep , 
i do n't know , 
i 'm not a real great football follower , 
i guess , there are two basic teams that i seem to follow every year . 
one is the dallas cowboys 
and the other is the oklahoma sooners . 
being a native okie i like to keep up with what the homeboys are doing . 
i see , 
so you make it to that longhorns sooners game ? 
every year . 
it 's funny . 
i got out and got my bachelor 's degree in seventy-three and never went to a game there and have never gone to a game since . 
how about that . 
but i always enjoyed watching them , 
growing up in oklahoma , there it was always the home team , kind of like dallas is around here . 
and there 's always been an interest there . 
it 's kind of same for me , 
i grew up in southern new jersey 
and the local team was philadelphia . 
and they were thirty miles right up the river 
and i 'm still pretty much an eagle fan , i guess . 
i guess you keep those things you grew up with . 
i worked in missouri for a while 
and i was probably the only one in the room several times when we were watching football on t v when the cowboys were playing the saint louis cardinals 
and i was rooting for the cowboys . 
but , they were kind of closer to home when i struck up with them . 
i really do n't know what 's going to take place with the cowboys this year . 
everybody keeps talking about the reconstruction they 're going through and new players and how next year is going to be even bigger and better than the previous year . 
in a way that happened this past season , 
and i think that 's quite a bit of optimism around here that still there 's a chance that maybe these guys are right , maybe they will come through and do something this year . 
i look for it to be a pretty good year . 
they sure did have a big turn around from a couple of years ago . 
they did , 
they got rid of a lot of familiar names and got a lot of names in that we were n't familiar with . 
some of them turned out to be pretty good players , 
some of them did n't 
and maybe the stuff that jerry jones is talking about the construction and redefining the team and maybe the effort might be starting to pay off . 
at least we hope it will . 
i keep waiting for the eagles to get over the hump . 
they make it to the playoffs for the last few years 
but they just have done absolutely nothing when they got there . 
and they 've got a lot of the tools to do it , 
but if they ca n't just put it together , 
they have got the quarterback there in randal cunningham , who 's just phenomenal , 
but , he 's too streaky it seems . 
but they have always been a really strong team . 
and without a whole lot of big name players . 
they have got a few anchors on offense and defense 
and they 've managed with those guys 
and i do n't know . 
once the pressure gets turned on they seem to loose it . 
i guess , 
that 's the typical trait of the dallas cowboys . and the oklahoma sooners . 
it 's funny , over the years . 
i guess since staubach left , they have n't been able to , keep it going . 
it 's been a rough road to hoe ever since he left . 
i do n't know why it 's so hard to find a good quarterback these days . 
that says a lot for his ability , though i think . 
for staubach 's . 
he was one of the few who come through in history that can really perform , 
every team hopes their current quarterback is going to pull them through . 
in a way aikman has done some of that . 
but the guy winds up getting hurt every other game . 
i tell you , 
it 's difficult in that guy 's position coming into that because there , he was just so highly touted by the press and everybody expected so many big things . 
they did . 
they put a lot of pressure on him from the outside and from the inside . 
it 's funny watching them play , 
he 's probably like a lot of quarterbacks , 
when the pressure is really on when it 's down to the last few minutes of the game for the season is when the guys seem to really do their best . 
and i have n't quite figured that out , 
they say , we got to do something now . and then start playing the game the way the game should be played toward the last few minutes . 
so , i do n't know 
i 'm looking for a good year . 
i guess we 're always looking for a good year . 
obviously though , do you think they 're going to do anything in the playoffs to make it to the super bowl this year 
or who do you like to do that this year ? 
i do n't think the cowboys have got a chance . 
i think they will probably win one or two more games than they did this year , 
and they 'll get close to it . 
they 'll probably get everybody 's hopes up and blow it toward the end . 
so who 's going to beat them ? 
who are they going to blow it to ? 
that 's a good question . 
i 'm figuring either the eagles or possibly san francisco 
i 'm not real sure . 
they 'd some big changes , speaking of them . 
they did . 
so , i do n't know how these changes are going to help or hinder the team , 
sometimes it brings in new motivation 
and all you can do is get out of the way because here they come . 
i 'm sure my sentimental favorite would have to be philadelphia , 
but i sure am scared of them giants . 
that 's true . 
those guys are tough . 
they are tough 
and they 're big , 
they 're mean 
and they are going to come right through you if you do n't do something . 
that sure was a fun super bowl to watch this year . 
i was n't pulling for either team . 
but that was just a good football game . 
and it 's funny , . 
you like to pull for the underdog 
and for a long time i was pulling for denver . 
marino makes me just crazy mad sometimes , because of some of the stupid stuff he does , 
but he 's a good quarterback . 
he 's got a good arm , 
sometimes it 's too good because he throws too hard . 
l a you mean ? 
i mean l a , 
speaking of denver , on another subject , i 've been up there five times in the last three , four weeks . 
we 've been trying . 
has it been snowing up there ? 
i was just up there , 
i just got back last night around eleven thirty or so , 
and it was about seven inches of snow on the ground . 
and it snowed all day . 
that will make the skiers happy . 
it snowed that much in denver 
they got that much up in the mountains just west of there . 
you bet . 
up around the keystone and copper mountain , those guys will love that . 
good to talk to you . 
enjoyed it bob . 
you guys have a good time , 
keep those printers coming . 
we 'll do it . 
go ahead . 
do i still feel that the soviet union , as such , is still a threat to the civilized western world ? 
absolutely . 
and my reasons are based upon not only what i see on the newspapers , but . 
i guess i do n't see them as much of a threat as they used to be , 
but i think just the instability of the country right now is , sort of scary . 
that 's what makes it a powder keg . 
i 'll go back in time a little bit , to about eighty-one , when my first real involvement with the military started . 
the soviet union was considered to be the big military power and the big threat . 
so we got quite a bit of information as well as indoctrination on soviet tactics and weapons . 
i went to lebanon in eighty-three , before the marines ever got there , with the u n peace keeping force . and with the training i received prior to going there , with captured weapons we kept running up against . 
these were n't chinese made copies . 
these were soviet made , top of the line , fresh out of the box , a k forty-sevens . as well as a lot of the explosives we were running into . 
in granada , in october , twenty-fifth , eighty-three , we invaded the place . 
there were cuban soldiers there , 
but there was also a bunch of russian advisors that were damn good shots . 
the team i was with , we jumped in on the western tip of the island down on point salinas . 
and for every cuban there was at least five russian advisors . 
and they were all shooting state of the art soviet weapons . 
in eighty-four , i was down in central america , as an advisor to the honduran army . 
again we were running up against cubans quite a bit , plus soviet advisors . 
and the equipment we were capturing and taking from the nicaraguans , was brand new , out of the crate , soviet made material . 
do i consider them a threat ? 
absolutely . 
they have a university in moscow called the patrice de lamumba university . about like a and m or u t , where they 're teachings subjects like that , 
they 're teaching terrorism . 
some of the people we went up against in lebanon were graduates from that place . 
and let me tell you , 
they are nothing nice to go up against . 
i 'm surprised during this iraqi crisis we did n't have more incidents than they did . 
these guys are top of the line . 
when they graduate from there , they can pull terrorist actions anywhere in the free world . 
and they are very , very good at what they do . 
so until i see the entire , quote , old guard of the soviet government completely roll over and disappear , preferably buried , i still consider them a threat . 
their military is different from ours , to where there are extremist generals that actually control tens and thousands of troops . that irregardless of what soviet policy is , they 're going to do what the general tells them . 
i guess that 's what concerns me the most . is they 're so unstable that somebody like that could make decisions that would jeopardize a lot of people . 
it 's interesting watching the different soviet states , albania , lithuania , doing their little revolts down there . 
each one of those sectors has got a soviet general over the troops that are there . 
so far they have n't run into the real psychos yet . 
there 's probably five or six , which would be an equivalent of our joint chiefs of staffs , that are in positions over some of these soviet states . 
if uprisings happen in their sectors , it 's going to be a total blood bath . 
it looks like it 's come close to that as it is . 
they 're showing remarkable restraint . 
they get real nasty , the hyundee helicopters come out 
and they , would level entire areas . 
you 're from the dallas area ? 
you know , basically the size of the area around richardson ? 
you put five soviet hyundee helicopters in the air , they can level the entire area 
and there wo n't be anything left alive . 
and they can do that in about four minutes . 
and they 've got entire squadrons of those just standing by . 
they used them in afghanistan , did remarkably well considering the terrain they were flying in . 
but on a highly populated area , like some of the soviet cities would be , with the weaponry that 's attached on those things , there is no place to hide . 
if the bombs do n't get you , if the bullets do n't get you , then the nerve gas definitely will get you . 
the only drawback on that little piece of machinery is they only got five minutes of air time . 
they drink that much fuel . 
have you , 
i take it you have n't spent any time in the military ? 
i have n't . 
as a civilian that 's never been attached to any form of the military , i know a lot of this stuff that i was involved in , never did make the newspapers . 
but , during that same time frame , did n't you get some feeling , that they 're getting all these weapons and stuff ? 
did n't it bug you a little bit why they kept coming up with all this stuff ? 
you mean in the most recent conflict ? 
in any of them since eighty-one . 
definitely . 
i 'm a little bit shocked to what the u s has done in terms of selling to iraq in the past ten to fifteen years . 
i think we kind of shoot ourselves in the foot that way too . 
it 's bad enough that the soviets do it . 
it all boils down to , whether it 's our side , their side , 
it 's a matter of money , to a certain extent . 
the deal the iraqis have with the russians was for oil . 
it 's scary to know that they 're supplying that many people with weapons . especially when it 's to the south of us . 
the ones to the south are more regional conflict . 
they 're not really that worried about invading north . 
they 've got a screwed up situation , 
i 'll give them that . 
from mexico all the way down into central and south america . 
the situation down there is weird 
and it 's very screwed up . 
inflation is out of this world 
and the governments , which our government has technically supported for years , are corrupt as all get out . 
and generally the people , are getting screwed , 
and they 're tired of it , 
and they 're willing to try anything to get out from under it , even if that means going to communism . 
i think russia is getting to the point where they 're about to do something to get out of communism . 
i guess i would like to see somebody like yeltsin to get more power . 
i think gorbachev has about had his day . 
unfortunately , yeltsin 's got too many connections with the old guard . 
that 's the only drawback that i see with the entire thing . 
gorbachev has made his attempt 
and he 's had his problems with some of the old guard himself . 
yeltsin 's in tight with the old guard . 
so it may be trying to choose between the lesser of two evils , at this point . 
true . 
i do n't know , 
i sure would n't turn my back on them . 
i thought that was great . 
but by no means do i endorse or approve pulling everybody out . 
it may be a much reduced force than what we used to have over there . 
but you still better have the key players in place , if something does go down . even if it 's a regional conflict . 
if united states is going to flex its muscle and be the super power that it is , not only does it talk the talk , 
but it 's got to be able to walk the walk . 
it 's got to have the stuff to back up what it 's saying . 
if you 've only got a token force there , you ca n't hold your ground . 
at least they 're learning a little bit from history . 
i usually ride my bike . 
i have a stationary bike and a regular bike . 
and when i can , i like to ride my regular bike outside , because it 's so much nicer . 
the stationary bike is so boring . 
boring . 
but i have head phones , 
plus i have it in the living room 
so i either watch t v 
, or we have a fish tank , 
so i watch the fish . 
whatever i can do to keep myself occupied . 
i like to have the t v on , because that usually keeps me more occupied . 
it kind of takes the time away 
that 's really the only time i ever watch t v , is when i 'm on the bike . 
and then usually after i 'm done riding the bike , just to cool myself down , i usually take a walk , 
and that just kind of gets me , to where i 'm not quite as tired i guess . 
but it 's definitely a task . 
you think so ? 
i ca n't say that i really enjoy it . 
i wish that i did enjoy it more , 
but i do it because i have to not because i want to . 
i bought a stationary bike , 
but i find that if i sit on that seat too long , it hurts . 
and i have n't figured how to get that soft , 
and i tried even tying a pillow to it . 
but two years ago i joined the cosmopolitan lady here in plano . 
and i love it . 
i just love it . 
so is it just women that go there ? 
it 's totally women . 
i think that 's what 's my biggest problem with going to a health club . 
because i do n't feel like having a bunch of other people watch me exercise . 
so i have tried to just do stuff at home 
and i just feel conscious about it . 
i 'm not big or anything , 
but i still do n't like other people watching me . 
i like to be able to sweat , have my hair a mess . feel that if my bathing suit slips a little bit i do n't have to be conscious of it being a little bit too low . 
and my bathing suit 's just one piece , 
so there 's no big deal all the way around , 
but i do n't have to be conscious of what i 'm doing or how i 'm doing it . 
and it 's a total free relaxation . 
because you can do what you want . 
you 're a female , 
and no one is staring at anybody else or worrying about what anything else is doing . 
and they 've got such fantastic equipment in there . 
that 's great . 
how , 
and i love the water aerobics . 
i love the water aerobics . 
do they have a pool 
they 've got a nice one . 
they have two types of water aerobics . 
they call it aqua exercise is what they call it . 
i 've heard that that 's really good for you to do . 
it pushes you because you 're pushing against the water in itself . 
so it is double strenuous . 
but you 're not being double strenuous on your own body . 
because you 're pushing it yourself . 
so you 're doing it yourself . 
so you do n't really feel like you 're really working that hard , do you ? 
when you 're in the water ? 
the only thing that i ever felt was , every time i stop and start going again , because i end up getting two jobs once in a while . 
i end up having to quit for a while . 
but i get blisters on my toes on the bottom because , i really jump a lot . 
that 's funny , 
i never would have thought of that . 
a lot of people wear those little terry cloth with rubber soles on the bottom . especially around the pool . 
so they just wear them right into the pool . 
are they water shoes ? 
no big deal one way or the other . 
that 's really funny . 
but , i never think about it until after you go there for about a week , your toes , you start getting blisters anyway . 
so no big deal . 
but it 's fun . 
so , how often do find yourself going ? 
if you 're doing it on a regular basis , how often do you go ? 
i try to make it at least three times a week . 
for a while i was doing it every day . just , going five days a week . 
i wish that i could make myself exercise every day . 
but i do force myself to do it at least three times a week . which i do n't feel like is enough , 
but it 's at least something . 
i have to force myself to do it , like i said , because to me , i really do n't enjoy it . 
but i know that i have to do it . 
it 's not a question of whether i want to . 
when i was working up at the summit , here in plano , i 'd leave there , 
and i 'd be at the swimming pool . actually about four thirty because they start at five to six , 
so i was there by four thirty , every night . 
and the only thing that ever bothered me was my hair getting wet . 
because no matter what i did or how i did it , i invariably got myself wet . 
but the water only comes up basically anywhere from your waist to your , chest , i 'd say . 
so it 's your choice where you want to go , 
but , i enjoyed it higher . 
i 'm sorry . 
that 's okay . 
did you ever go to texins at all when you were working for t i ? 
did you ever try that ? 
i have a bad back , 
so i 'm very limited what i do . 
it 's like i can walk , 
but if i walk for more than fifteen minutes it 's going to bother me . 
especially when you 're on cement or anything that 's hard , 
it will bother me . 
it will bother me . 
i guess then the water aerobics would be probably the best thing for you , would n't it ? 
what pushed me that way though , basically was the fact that when i went in there , is was n't for the water aerobics . 
i went in there strictly to strengthen my back muscles . 
and she said , go for the swimming pool . 
she says you get just as much if you did the aerobics on the floor . 
she says in fact you get more . 
i said because i 'm not a swimmer . 
i like water . 
i 'm not scared of it . 
i guess i could swim across the pool , 
but i 'm no swimmer per se . 
but i found that this worked really well . 
and i came out of there 
and i saw my stomach going down well . 
i dropped almost twenty pounds . just by watching what i ate . 
and they fix you up with a diet , which worked real good . 
what if you 're already on one ? 
i mean , 
what ? 
a diet ? 
when you go in there , they would n't make you do theirs . would they ? 
they have nothing to do with that . 
when this one down here opened up , i joined as a v i p . 
and the v i p gives you a computerized diet . 
and they go over all your health and all your history , 
and they show you everything to do , and how to do it , and the whole nine yards . 
so it became part of the package , 
so i went through it . 
it worked out well . 
but they have packages where they just offer the exercise program . 
is that what you 're saying ? 
you can just go in there and join just like anywhere else too . 
i see , 
so it 's less than what you pay now for going in there , after all this time . 
so it 's like when i got laid off , i went back in there , and start all over again because it had been a while since i 'd done it . 
so i get all the same treatment again . 
so it 's kind of nice . 
like i said , i like it . 
i like the heat . 
i jump out of the swimming pool , 
and i go into the hot tub . 
and i love it . 
that would be really nice . 
let me reword that , 
i think i have gone home maybe once or twice slightly sore . 
but that 's because of my physical condition and nothing to do what they did . 
i knew i was pushing too far . 
but usually , when i go into the hot tub before i go swimming , or when i come out , i 'm totally relaxed when i go home . 
it 's no big deal . 
it 's fun . 
it 's fun . 
i 've gotten on the bike . 
and they 've got the stepping bike , where you step . 
and i 've enjoyed that , watching how well i can walk up and down stairs . 
i wanted to get one of those steppers when i bought the bike , 
but most of the others to me are very dull . 
but i got talked into the bike instead . 
and i do n't know , 
i really wanted a stepper . 
i 'm considering maybe even buying one of those too . 
but i 'm not sure if i 'll get benefit out of both of them . 
i do n't know if it would really do any good having both of them . 
which one do you feel is better , since you use them both ? 
i get bored very easily . 
the one nice thing about the bicycle is you just sit . 
like you said , you can sit and do it , and watch the t v and not even really be conscious of what you are doing . 
with the stepper , you are conscious of what you are doing because you 're basically watching each step as it gets harder and down . 
it would depend upon which one you want . 
i think now that i 've had the bicycle , i would go to the stepper . 
but if i were you , i would go apply to either a health club or one of the others and use it for a while . 
because you can buy a month 's membership . and see what you feel is best for you . 
because i jump on the bike here at home . 
the handle bars go up and down , 
so i can sit there and read and listen to music , like what you said , 
and it has no effect on me . 
so it 's boring . 
one year public service for everybody . 
that was it ? . 
who wants to start this one ? 
i do n't know , 
i 've been sitting here thinking , 
because it took a couple tries before i found somebody . 
i 'm not really sure what i think about this . 
the first thing is if it 's going to be mandatory , it 's got to be mandatory , 
everybody , not just poor people and all that but senators ' sons and all that stuff too . 
everybody 's got to do it . 
i do n't know , 
it 'd probably be good , 
i just do n't know if i was eighteen or whatever , i 'd want to be stuck doing it for a year or whatever . 
i 'm not sure i want an eighteen year old to make that kind of decision . 
that does n't sound right . 
i guess i see overall beneficial , if we 're going from that point of view . 
. in the past , 
i do n't know how old you are , 
but when i was in high school , it was the beginning of vietnam and so forth . 
and many of my peers were being drafted . 
and i could see that many of them had conscientious objections to war or whatever . 
but i felt strongly then that even if they did n't feel like they could kill someone , or go into a military situation , that they could help the country in other ways . be it cleaning out lots , in their neighborhood or , whatever kind of community or public service might be available . 
and i guess i see that as not so much a demand but a privilege . 
since we live here and we all benefit , rich , poor or in between there are benefits even for those who have it the hardest . 
i just see that as maybe a good idea . 
i would n't mind doing it at forty-four . 
and i find ways to turn some of that back to others . 
and i guess i ca n't see that as being something to really object to . 
you 're going to go and fill pot holes and , all that stuff . 
i do n't know . 
i could see a gamut of different kinds of opportunities . 
things that need to be done , that could be done in an hour or two a day , or several hours of the week . like a half of a day on saturday or something like that . in addition to what one does besides that . 
i ca n't , imagine what kind of bureaucracies we 'd get into and expense having it be full time , 
you 're going to go to this camp 
back in the depression , the c c c , the construction corps that went out and did things . that was great , 
it was needed , 
it gave some folks some jobs , 
and we got some great public works out of it . 
but i do n't see that as being necessary now . 
i can see it being done on a regular schedule . 
everybody has to put in so many hours of public service in a given time , perhaps . 
i guess i see all of us benefiting , 
and i do n't see it just relegated to the young . 
but i see so much going on , that 's bad . 
and this would give them a chance to have some positive self-esteem . 
something that they turn , back . 
and also you feel more like you 're actually part of the community if you 've done something , in it . 
that 's right . 
you take pride in that , and get some positive feedback from those who benefit , besides yourself . 
and i see it being most beneficial if it 's in at least the area where the person lives . 
definitely . 
it might not be the same neighborhood , but the same city or county , because then you 're coming in contact with it . 
it 's not as meaningful for me to go to minnesota and do something up there that i 'll never be able to see again , unless i happen to go on vacation , up there . 
it almost needs to be something that has more impact for the individual , on going . 
but as far as putting that into work , i do n't want to deal with the heartache of , first of all , getting it started and figuring out how to do the logistics , of it . 
that would , be a nightmare . 
and just getting it going . 
i , see a lot of things like scouting boys clubs , girls clubs , things like that , that kind of get into that citizenship the looking after the environment sort of thing 
and i guess , i do n't see this being that different . but even more beneficial because it would be something that everybody participated in , and would take a turn in . 
do you have kids ? 
not yet . 
in about six months we will . 
good . 
you 'll have a little time . 
when i was teaching school i saw so many kids that were at loose ends and that did n't really have a purpose . 
and i can see some really significant things coming out of it . 
i know you 've got to get past that grudge attitude that many have , 
but that would be a part of selling it to the community . 
the adults ahead of it would probably never serve and to each succeeding generation . 
there definitely would have to be a major p r campaign in each community , each county parish or however the state was divided up . 
i do n't know , 
around here we have a number of community projects that folks just volunteer for . 
and i 've seen it in other states too . 
they have , that here . , 
i do n't know , 
down in north carolina , there was a big controversy for a while , because the local chapter of the k k k wanted to participate in it 
and there were those that said , you ca n't do that , i 'm sure . 
it was interesting because that 's an interesting question . 
should these people be allowed to or not ? 
i think they finally decided not to because they figured that stretch of highway was going to get trashed . 
and i had n't even thought about the other end of that . 
that 's an interesting situation . 
i had n't thought of that . 
we had visited relatives in virginia , not too long ago , 
and i thought i had seen , when we were traveling around the state , some similar signs up that indicated that certain sections were being policed and cleaned up 
i think virginia 's got it 
and i know maryland does , 
and we went to indianapolis last weekend , and back . 
and i 'm pretty sure i saw stuff in ohio and indiana about it and maybe pennsylvania , 
i do n't remember for sure now . 
and i do n't know about your part of the country , 
but down here in the last year plus there 's just been more of a turn toward environmental concerns , 
and i work for texas instruments . 
and they 've started some recycling campaigns that a year before that had been turned down because they said , it 's not feasible , 
it 's not a good idea . 
and , i see that as being a change for the positive . kind of along the same line as the mandatory thing . 
but then they lost , too much business . 
it 's just a part of everyone 's consciousness . 
because it was big in the early seventies and all that . 
and then it kind of just went out of vogue . 
and i 'm worried that the same thing will happen . 
it 's like environmentalism was really big for a couple of years 
i 'd rather spend fifty cents less on such and such 
and even if it 's not environmentally safe , who cares . 
i 'm sure the pendulum will swing the other way . 
there have been too many other things that it 's done that for , just in my life . 
and if you look at history at all , you see that we go from one side to the other on just about any subject , that one might care to bring up . 
but , it is comforting to me to see more concern about some of these things that cost us money . 
especially when we have dwindling resources such as oil that 's burning out of control in the persian gulf , and so forth . 
it makes me feel better . 
it makes me feel like , there may be something left for my children , my nieces and nephews and so forth . 
it 's just probably a good thing that the oil 's burning and may , make some people realize that this stuff runs out . 
of course , that 's probably blasphemy for you to say coming from where you are in texas . 
what was it when we had the last oil crisis ? 
and we started getting smart 
and we were looking all these alternative sources of the energy and so forth . 
and as soon as the oil prices came back down , the pendulum swang the other way . 
and we need those reminders . 
or we 'll suddenly be in the dark and say , now we do n't have the ability to go on to some new technology . 
my dad 's in the solar energy business , 
so we 're acutely aware of a lot of this . 
but on the other hand , he voted for george bush , 
so i wonder sometimes if he knows what he 's doing . 
just about anybody you could name , whether i voted for them or not makes decisions that i just ca n't go along with . 
but that 's why they 're there and not me . 
i do n't want the stress . 
the thing with bush ... 
do you want to go first ? 
you can go first , 
or i will . 
you go ahead . 
i 'm going to tell you what i 'd have . 
down in the south , we have a lot of shrimp ? 
and i have shrimp that is steamed in beer , that i cook . 
and then i have a cauliflower that i would cook , garlic bread , green salad , tea , 
and we 'd have a lemon pie for dessert . 
it sounds fantastic . 
and what 's really neat about it is , the shrimp is cooked in your rice cooker . 
and you place the shrimp in the rice steamer , 
and you put a bay leaf and put some red pepper over it . 
you can either use the kind that comes in the little can 
or you can just get some regular red peppers . 
is it cayenne pepper , you mean ? 
cayenne ? 
and you put a little bit of that over it . 
if you use the dried kind ? then you would only use two of them . 
and you put that in there , 
and then you pour two bottles of beer over it . 
and how much shrimp would you use ? 
two pounds . 
two pounds , 
that 's the jumbo shrimp in the shells . 
leave the shells on them so they wo n't just roll up . 
and you pour the beer over the top of it , 
and you cover it . 
and you only cook it until the mixture begins to boil , and the shrimp turn pink . 
then you remove it , 
and you put it on a platter . 
and then you serve it with melted butter . 
and i usually put garlic powder in mine . 
and they can just dip it , 
and they shell it as they eat it . 
but then the cauliflower , you , cook that in the microwave . 
and what you do is , you just wash it , 
and you core it . 
and in a , pyrex or something like that , kind of bowl that would go in the microwave . 
a glass dish . 
but it 's got to have one that has a cover on it . 
and you put about two tablespoons of water into this bowl , and about an eighth . 
and then you just set your cauliflower in there , 
and then you cook it for seven minutes on high . 
and you rotate it one time . 
and are you cooking the whole head at one time ? 
when you core it , you be real careful so you wo n't knock your flowers off . 
i see . 
and you just set it in there , 
and you microwave it on high for seven minutes , 
and you turn it one time . 
and while that 's cooking , i take about a cup of mayonnaise , and a teaspoon of mustard , and some garlic powder , 
and i mix it all together . 
and i shred up some just regular white cheese . 
and after that 's cooked , you take it out and pour this on top of it , 
and then you sprinkle the cheese on top of that . 
and you cook it for another three minutes on high just mainly to melt the cheese and everything , and let all the seasoning melt into it . 
and , it 's done . 
that sounds fantastic . 
it is good . 
what i usually do is , i 'll sit the cauliflower in the middle , 
and then i put the shrimp around the outside of it on my platter . 
and then i have a green salad that i put around the outside of that . 
and you have all the different seasonings and stuff , 
and then i just fix little individual cups for them . 
and they have the , garlic bread , 
and it 's not much work . 
but it looks like it . 
i bet it tastes good too . 
and usually i cut those little cherry tomatoes up , and put some color into it , 
and i 'll lay those on top of my salad to make it look nice and things like that . 
how many could you serve ? 
it usually serves six . 
i figured about that . 
that 's good . 
out here , we have so many ethnic people . 
we have italians , 
and we have portuguese , 
and we have russians and polish . 
and it depends , out here ? 
so it 's hard , 
you just have to pick something , for the group that you 're going to entertain for that particular time . 
and they 're big on finger food here , too chicken wings and ribs , and that kind of stuff . barbecue and cooking out in the yard , when it 's nice . barbecue outside , chicken and that kind of stuff . 
have you ever had crawfish ? 
but i have had shrimp . 
. you ought to try some crawfish . 
they are good . 
but that 's one good thing about living down here is , usually anybody that comes over even if it 's out of town guests and stuff , they want our cooking . 
of course . 
they want it from down here . 
because , just now , especially crawfish , it is starting to move out , 
and more and more people are beginning to find out how good it is . 
is it like shrimp ? 
it 's similar . 
it 's similar . 
it 's got a taste of its own , 
but it is similar to , because you only eat the , tails of it . 
it does ? 
does , it look like a lobster ? 
it looks more like a crab . 
it looks more like a crab . 
are they thin , long or wide ? 
i guess it looks more like a cross between a crab and a lobster . 
because it 's small like that 
and it 's got the pinchers like a crab . 
but it 's similar to a lobster too , because the tail has got the little pleats in it , like a , lobster would . 
and we call them mud bugs . 
but they 're fantastic tasting . 
they are so good . 
everybody , 
it 's the season for them right now . 
and where did you say you were from ? 
louisiana . 
louisiana . 
do you do cajun cooking ? 
i love blackened the fish and the chicken and that kind of stuff . 
! we have a few places up here that do that . 
and if ever i see it on the menu , i always get it . 
it is so good . 
you know , 
how do they do the blackened ? 
you buy it as a seasoning . 
but do you have to have a certain skillet , or something ? 
do you have a black iron skillet ? 
i did have . 
i do n't have it now . 
but i have mostly teflon . 
i guess you could cook it in that too , 
you now , 
but i do n't know . 
i never have . 
i use the black iron skillet to cook mine . 
does it have to get extremely hot ? 
but it does n't burn or anything like that . 
the blackening is really the seasoning . 
it 's , a blackening seasoning . 
i see . 
that is a seasoning . 
i see . 
because , what it 's called is , blackening magic . 
and , it comes in a bottle , 
it 's got a picture of dom de luise on it . 
you would cook it for the same amount of time as you would , prepare it any other time ? 
is that what you 're saying ? 
because , i could have the chicken on the skewers , with blackened seasoning . 
and that is so good . delicious . 
but you do have to have it hot when you cook it your pan . 
it does have to be really hot when you put it in . 
but it 's not like it 's burned , 
and what blackens it , is the seasoning . 
and it is so good . 
it is . 
i love it . 
in fact i was in texas for a little while . 
and i liked the barbecues and the mexican food . 
i have a passion for all that type of different tastes . 
because i have been brought up mostly italian american food . 
because my parents are italian and portuguese . 
so we cook a lot of pasta , and gravies , and pizzas , and roasts , and that kind of thing . 
that 's why i enjoy going to restaurants and trying different things . 
have you ever thought about coming to louisiana to visit ? 
i would love to . 
you ought , to come down . 
you do n't even have to go all the way to new orleans if you want to really get some good food . 
you do n't have to go that far south . 
but of course , the further south you go , the better the food is , as far as i 'm concerned . 
is that right ? 
and fact is , we 're going to take a vacation this year . 
we 're going to go to new orleans , again . 
and we 're only going down there for the food , though . 
where do you go when you go there ? 
right on basin street and those places ? 
we go to the french quarters and stuff like that . 
and i have some friends that live down there . 
and so , usually we do n't go to the tourist ones . 
we go to the ones that they tell us to go to . 
i see . 
and we went to this one , 
it was called the back porch . 
and they were cooking the stuff while we went on this boat ride . 
and then we came back and ate , out on this back porch . 
that 's nice . 
there 's no where you can miss . 
i have never gone to a restaurant , and not just been so full , 
it 's unreal . 
it 's so good . 
the seasoning it 's just unreal . 
i 'm trying to think what they call their soup . 
i do n't know . 
gumbo . 
jumbo . 
gumbo . 
gumbo , 
is that with seafood ? 
you can even make it with chicken 
or you can make it with seafood . 
you can ? 
that looks good too . 
i 've seen the chefs on t v do that ? 
and it looks delicious . 
and i 'll tell you what . 
we do a thing , 
we call it a sea bake . 
you take clams , 
i wonder , 
the assumption is that it is a problem , 
and i 've never actually had too many people explain to me why it 's a problem , though i have the same instinctual feeling that it 's a problem 
but it 's not clear to me that it is . 
it 's a problem if those voting do n't represent the population demographically , or in terms of their opinions . 
and , it those who do n't vote would have voted exactly the same way in other words if forty percent had voted for that person and sixty percent for the other , just like everyone who did vote , it 's not clear to me that it is really a problem . 
that 's interesting , 
i feel that it 's a problem also , 
but , i see your point on that . 
poor blacks , for example , vote very little , and things like that 
and i assume that they would vote differently if they were voting , than your average voter . 
but i do n't know if that 's the case . 
in fact i 've heard of studies that suggest that that is n't . 
apparently they do n't think it 's a problem . 
i guess not , 
i vote religiously , 
i really do . 
i guess i 'm a fan of democracy 
and wish i could vote on more things frankly . 
that 's right , 
but it 's funny because here in california things are getting increasingly democratically oriented , in the sense of people being able to vote for things . 
we have these state initiatives now . 
the first really popular , wide spread one was proposition thirteen which was a tax revolt , against property taxes . 
and that was whatever , ten years ago 
and now we 're up to proposition a hundred and fifty or something like that . 
there were apparently voters who just threw up their hands after the last voters pamphlet because they were being asked to make decisions on topics that would have three different competing proposals 
and you had to vote for yes or no on each of them 
and no one could make heads or tails out of some of them 
and it was incredibly complicated and difficult . 
and a lot of people revolted against that , 
they said we do n't want to have to decide all these things , 
that 's why we hire people to make these decisions for us . 
i kind of feel the opposite , though . 
i wish we were given an opportunity to vote on more things . 
i think our elected officials say they are speaking for us 
but they 're not speaking for me . 
i would n't mind having more votes than i get to have , frankly . 
that 's true . 
anyone who does n't vote , it 's fine with me as long as i can have their vote . 
that would make me happy though . 
maybe not in a deep philosophical sense , but in a selfish sense , it probably would . 
i do n't know , 
it 's interesting , 
some countries voting is obligatory . 
it is in australia , for example . 
is that true ? 
i did n't know that , 
that is one solution to it . 
i do n't know how i feel about that . 
that 's not really democratic . 
not what i 'd consider truly democratic . 
australia considers itself every bit as much a democracy as the united states . 
and it 's not for me to say that they 're not . 
here you have the right to vote 
and they simply define it as a duty there . 
just as we have a duty to pay taxes , 
is that democratic ? 
we do n't have the right to pay taxes in this country , 
we have the duty to pay taxes . 
it 's a duty . 
and in that country it 's a duty to pay taxes 
and it 's a duty to vote on how those taxes are spent . 
and it 's not clear to me that , that 's so much less democratic . 
. i do n't know , 
but part of me rebels against that , 
it 's complex question when you start thinking about it , is n't it . 
but then i 'm an american . 
and some people do n't vote , 
like three or four percent of australians do n't vote 
and i think they 're eligible for a fine . 
i do n't know if they actually are fined or what happens , 
but you 're eligible for some sort of fine if you do n't vote . 
that 's interesting . 
i have people here that i know that have never registered to vote . 
and i think they feel they can criticize if they do n't . 
i told them if they do n't vote they do n't have the right to criticize . 
that 's how i feel . 
if you vote and your guy looses you least tried 
and you can say something 
but if you do n't vote , part of me feels like , if you did n't vote , you get what 's coming to you . 
that 's right , 
and certainly that 's true in the overall , 
no one individual that 's true for 
but for the population as a whole , i sort of feel that way . 
especially when , they do n't vote for someone because they do n't like any of them and then the person gets in and they do n't like him and he turns out to have been worse than her that they might have voted for , or something like that . 
and i say voting for the lesser of two evils is still important . 
i think it is too . 
sometimes it is a difficult choice . 
you do n't feel as though you have much of a choice , 
it 's funny because technically you do . 
you have the right to do a write in candidate . 
but of course that 's not really a vote . 
it does n't really gain anything . 
it really does n't , 
and so it 's a complicated situation , 
i do n't know , 
i 'm thinking of actually moving to australia 
and perhaps i 'll call you back and let you know how the australian system works . 
i 'm not thinking of moving there because of the voting , but just because of a job opportunity . 
i see . 
are you a t i employee , 
i 'm interested . 
i 'm not . 
not , 
i just wondered . 
so i 'm really quite curious , how that would work , to have both , 
soviet bloc countries you are obliged to vote too . 
in fact , it was even pretty much spelled out who you did vote for , up until fairly recently 
and , that 's what i think of when i think of you 're obliged to vote . 
i do n't know , 
part of me is wary 
and part of me likes the idea of having it be more of a duty . 
maybe they should , 
perhaps that would be a solution if they were required to vote at least for their first three or four years after they become of voting age . required to register and vote for four years , 
and perhaps they would be indoctrinated that this is their duty . 
that 's a thought , 
or certain privileges come from voting which are n't that important but are nice to have , 
i do n't know . 
maybe it should go with a driver 's license . 
actually 
that 's considered a privilege , not a right . 
that is a privilege , 
technically it 's a privilege , 
but most people think of it as a right . 
in other words if the government denies you a driver 's license , people get very upset . 
but actually it 's a privilege , which is allowed to be revoked . 
it is . 
that 's correct . 
and , fortunately voting is n't that . 
maybe it should be . 
except if you 're a felon , 
if you 're a felon it is taken away from you . 
they will take away your right to vote , under certain circumstances . 
that 's right . 
so we do n't have a great solution yet do we , 
i think i checked that as a question i 'd be willing to discuss too . 
but i do n't know if you 've read any of the early republic documents when they were arguing through constitutional law written by hamilton and all those people . 
i have n't . 
i think it was hamilton who wrote number ten or something , where he was arguing for a republican , not in the sense of the republican party now , versus a democratic government and , arguing successfully , why , the united states should be a republic , not a democracy . which indeed it really is , 
a republic , not a democracy . 
where he defines democracy as everyone votes for the issues and republic is people who vote for someone who then in turn votes for the issues . 
in other words , you vote for representatives . 
and the whole idea was presumably those who get voted in would be wiser than the average person , and , a specialist and able to make more informed decisions and can protect against the tyranny of democracy , 
because just as you can have a tyranny of a single bad ruler or something , you can have a tyranny of the majority . 
and he makes a very passionate , good argument for why you do n't want some things decided by democratic process , 
because anytime you have a majority they can change the law in a fully democratic process 
and there are cases when you do n't want that to be the case . 
if there 's some minority that people do n't like because of racial hatred or something like that , the majority can just simply vote against them . 
and cases like that need to be constrained , 
and i agree , except that i do n't trust the people who are appointed to vote . 
sometimes i think we have that right now , with congress . 
i think they 're looking after their own self preservation more than they 're actually looking after the good of the country . 
their job is to be reelected , by in large , 
and , so they work on that job . 
and there 's also an antigovernment mood in the country where government is misspending your dollars 
and they 're all fools , 
and throw the bastards out , 
that kind of thing . 
and , there 's a notion that somehow , if someone is n't as much as a government person , they 're less corrupt and they 're more likely to be good which is really strange , 
because if i 'm hiring a plumber , i want a real plumber , 
i was just trying to think about how i dress for work , 
t i is a very casual atmosphere . 
and what i usually do on the weekend is lay out five outfits 
and on monday i wear the worst looking one . because it does n't seem like people are that alive on monday , 
and then progressively through the week , i 'll wear nicer looking things 
and then on friday most everybody wears jeans and sweatshirts , or jeans and blouses or something like that . 
but mostly what i wear are skirts and blouses or skirts and pullover sweaters or little two piece dress suits , 
that 's a good way to approach it . 
i do plan my clothes a week in advance . 
actually , i plan them a month in advance . 
i usually do a month at a time , 
so i do n't repeat an outfit . 
but i 've never thought about wearing your worst outfit on monday , because really no one 's paying attention . 
but i do n't work outside of school . 
i work in the computer lab at school 
so i can just wear whatever i have on for school , 
i try to dress presentable but very comfortable . 
in the warm weather it 's always shorts and a t-shirt or a button up or something like that 
and then in the winter time it 's jeans or pants . 
college is so casual , 
you really do n't want to dress up unless you , have a job and you have to be there right after school or something like that , 
where i work , it 's pretty casual , 
i guess it 's more like a college campus 
also there 's hundreds of people work for t i . 
and a lot of people just wear jeans and , sweats all the time 
and they dress up when customers are coming in , or when we have department meetings or something like that . 
and a lot of people like those that work in the legal department for the real higher ups , like the t i lawyers , and those that work for the higher executives , those secretaries . they really dress up all the time . 
so there 's a good combination in the hallways all the time . 
that 's good that they 're so casual . 
my brother works for t i 
and he 's a computer engineer . 
and whenever he was going to school , he was expecting to to wear a tie or a dress shirt everyday . 
but he goes to work in his blue jeans , t-shirt , and tennis shoes , 
and he just loves it . 
and that 's very acceptable at t i . 
i believe at i b m they make you wear a blue suit and some kind of colored shirt and a tie . 
that 's what i 've heard . 
i would hate to be in that atmosphere . 
but they just moved into the new building , 
he calls it the new building . 
i do n't know , 
it 's where all the executives are . 
and so they were going to try to take their blue jean code with them and trying to get all the upper level to start wearing blue jeans . 
but , he just left for italy today at four , 
and he 'll be over there until july first setting up some kind of computers for them . 
i see . 
for t i but over in italy . 
t i is everywhere . 
he was so excited about going . 
but he did n't carry any ties or anything because he just went over there with that attitude , if i do n't take it then they wo n't make me wear it . 
that 's true , 
that 's a good idea . 
he 's not really into all that . 
he would wear it if he had to for his job and all 
but his preference is blue jeans and a t-shirt , 
but i think that 's great about t i , 
and also to get off the clothing , the smokers , you know , how they have the different designated areas for smokers and stuff . 
i think that 's great . 
and if you happen to go into one of areas that is a smoke area and you do n't smoke , you almost strangle . 
do you smoke ? 
so much smoke in the air . 
the smoking area , it 's closed in , 
and if you do n't smoke and you go in there , 
everybody that goes in there smokes 
so it 's full of smoke when you go in there . 
i used to smoke a long time ago . 
i used to burn my clothes , talking about getting back to clothes . 
i used to burn my clothes with cigarettes . 
that 's one of the reason that i stopped . 
you mentioned your daughter had graduated from college . 
when she was in high school did she always have to have all the new fashions 
she always had to have a lot of clothes . 
that 's how i am 
but my mamma was not raised like that 
i was n't either , 
my daughter , she 's real good at finding sales though . 
me to , 
i have to , hunt them down . 
she 'll buy a lot clothes , at the end of seasons and just have them for the next year . 
and she finds all the outlets and all the discount places and buys clothes . 
when they were coming up , i did n't sew , 
but now i 've learned how to sew , 
so i 'm still learning how , 
and i 'm getting much better at it 
and i 'm going to be able to make my own clothes . 
that 's great . 
i wanted to take a sewing class at school 
but i just have n't fit it into my schedule yet , 
that 's something that i 'd be very interested in learning . 
because clothes are really expensive , 
they 're outrageous ! 
a little simple shell blouse that you can make for about ten dollars at the most out of a decent fabric runs you twenty something dollars in the store . 
it 's marked up . 
just a little shell to go under a suit . 
it is really outrageous 
i never understood this then , 
but i do now , 
but she never would buy me the new designer jeans that had come out that were thirty dollars , 
or she would n't buy me the fifty dollar tennis shoes and stuff like that 
and she always told me it was because i was still growing 
and she was n't going to buy me something i was going to grow out of next week . 
especially to pay that kind of money for it . 
she had a little boy 
and she used to dress him out of neiman marcus . 
she dressed him fabulously . 
and then , seems like every time she turned around he was outgrowing stuff . 
and she finally learned that you just can not do this . 
so now she finds the basement sales just like everybody else . 
that 's the best way to shop . 
i always thought my mom was being mean to me 
but i look back at it now 
i 'm going to raise mine the same way . 
i do n't know , 
they 're just so outrageously priced , 
it 's just incredible . 
i try to always catch the sales . 
always . 
and 
and you just have to keep buying them . 
if you 're not buying the most expensive clothes out there the quality is really not that great for the price that you pay . 
there 's always a reason why they 're on sale . 
so that has a lot to do with it . 
i bought the most beautiful sweater from ross dress for less . 
and it was really pretty , 
it was just a plain , round , necked sweater . 
and it was embellished around the top , 
it had leather designs and some other little things on it 
and i just thought it was so pretty 
and i got it at a real good price , 
i think maybe it was nine ninety-nine or something . 
that 's great . 
and it was so pretty , 
and after i wore it a couple of times i realized why it was so cheap . 
it had been slit 
and they had just sewed it back together , right in the middle of the back , 
was n't a seam or anything . 
and that 's why it was so cheap , although , it 's not really noticeable from the outside , 
but still , it 's really not a good quality . 
and then i was told by somebody that works for j c penney 's that ross is just one of those places that sells seconds . 
the defect . 
they do n't really buy the first quality , 
they buy the second . 
and places like j c penney 's they 'll reject the seconds , 
they 'll send them back every time . 
t j max does that , 
we have a t j max over here 
the last thing i 've done as far as car repairs go is change oil and filter and that kind of stuff . 
i have n't gotten really involved in anything extensive in car repairs in probably a year or so . 
i think the last thing i did of any significance was change the water pump on an oldsmobile . 
i had a similar thing , that i 've worked on cars ever since i was a kid . 
and that was some time ago , 
i try to buy as simple a car as possible . 
i know what you mean . 
and most of them now you do n't go through the ignition stuff anymore because that 's all solid state or fuel injected 
or fuel injected , 
so there goes the carburetor 
and if the fuel injection system breaks down , there 's no way in the world you 're going to work on that . 
there 's no way . 
i had a car that said fuel injection on the side of it 
and a woman asked me what that meant 
and i said that means that i ca n't work on it . 
basically that 's it . 
they 've gotten so complicated or so high tech that average guys ca n't really go out in the garage and do a whole lot of repairs , 
i 've got an eighty-four chevy van that 's a one ton van with a camper conversion on it . 
it 's got the good old three fifty , standard engine in it . 
regular gas engine , 
and that engine i understand , 
i can actually work on that engine . 
i used to have , uh , chevy van , 
it was a short van , that had the three fifty in it . 
and basically it was a motor 
and you did n't have all the other junk around it , 
and you could get to it to work on it . 
i had to change the water pump in that , here about a year ago . 
and it was really fairly easy . 
take the grill out and the radiator out 
and you can just stand there and work on it . 
the hardest part about water pump changes is getting all the junk off , before you can get too it . 
that 's true . 
you 're right , 
i was hoping i could remember where all those other things went . 
that 's kind of the way i was , 
i tried to remember as i took stuff off where it went , 
and i do n't think i had too many nuts and bolts left over when i got it all put back together . 
a few years ago i had an oldsmobile diesel 
after about a hundred thousand miles the injector pump went out on it . 
and i bought it when we were living in lubbock , 
when i came back here , i brought the car back here 
and i do n't know , 
diesels got pretty unpopular 
though for what you could get for one , you might as well drive it over a cliff . 
and the injector pump went bad 
so i found a outfit down here to rebuild it . and reinstalled that 
and that was probably one of the most miserable things i had gotten into in a long time . 
i do n't think i 'd know where to start with a diesel . 
diesels do n't require mechanics , 
they require plumbers . 
that 's true . 
i think the closest thing i 've come to a diesel is , i 've worked for a tractor repair shop when i was in high school 
and we used to overhaul farm tractors basically , 
and they were nearly all diesel , 
but as far as cars i 've never , never been involved with them . 
and you can get to them . 
you can get to them , 
and the ones in the diesel cars were little tiny things and just almost impossible to do anything with . 
i 've had a lot of good service out of that car , 
but i finally gave it to my son 
and he drove it literally into the ground . 
he was out at tech 
and he finished it off . 
i guess you 're right 
the diesel has almost fallen into unpopular status . 
i do n't know exactly why . 
i 'm beginning to wonder where do you get gas at . 
i do n't know if it 's still limited like it was , 
what , 
the availability ? 
you mean the diesel availability ? 
i do n't notice 
but maybe because i 'm not looking for it . 
i 'd bought a g m c diesel pickup and loved that thing , 
i really liked it . 
but it turns out a pickup was n't what i really needed , 
traded it in on the chevy van . 
but sure enjoyed it . 
but you got the three fifty in the van ? 
the three fifty regular gas engine . 
that 's what i like because , they 've got plenty of power , 
and if you treat them right , they 're not the gas guzzlers i think that they 've got the reputation to be . 
i 'm convinced that detroit or whoever it is made a major mistake , years ago when they stopped putting the small v eights in and went to the fours and some of the sixes . 
i 'm convinced that the small v eight like the mustang 's original two eighty-nine or some of the chevy two eighty-threes , were good little v eight engines that were not gas guzzlers 
but they had enough power t- , pull all this weight . 
and the four cylinders just do n't have it . 
i think the little chevy v eight when it started out in fifty-five was two sixty-five , something like that . 
not whole lot more than the six cylinder that i think was about two thirty-five or so . 
i think those little v eights could have been made to be pretty powerful little engines , if they would have gone with it , 
that was a short stroke engine 
it could really wind up . 
bought a mitsubishi mirage here a couple of years ago 
and it was normally carbureted 
and it 's fairly easy to work with because there 's not just a whole lot in it to go wrong , 
and changing the plugs and stuff . 
my first car was a fifty-six mustang 
i had a dodge pickup several years ago , 
and i ca n't remember the size of the engine 
it was a three oh , seven or something like that , 
but i remember working on those cars , 
you 'd open the hood 
and there was basically nothing in there but an engine , and a few things . 
now , you open the hood 
and it 's scary . 
like you say it takes a plumber to figure out where all this stuff goes . 
the friend of ours over here , he 's got sixty-five , or sixty-six mustang the six cylinder . 
and i was look under the hood of that the other day 
and like you say , you can see the road . 
it 's amazing . 
if you had to you could climb up in there and do what you needed to . 
you could stand in there if you really wanted to , i guess . 
i guess it 's an eighty-nine or ninety chrysler something or other . 
it 's one of those transverse mounted v sixes , front wheel drive . 
and he was showing it to me 
and we 're looking under the hood 
and everything 's nice and clean 
and you can see the three spark plugs there in the front . 
and i said where are the other three . 
and he 'd never really thought about it . 
and he says hopefully i wo n't have to change them , before i trade it off . 
it 's going to be a problem getting back there because it was shoved right up against the fire wall . 
so they just about complicated the things so much that shade tree mechanics ca n't do much with them . 
within a couple of years ago anyway was the last i 've paid any attention to it . 
the three oh five was that , v eight that they put in the three quarter and half ton van . 
and it had all the air pump and all that stuff . 
the anti-smog pumps . 
and all the anti-smog stuff . 
and that was really a mess back under there in that van . 
and all that stuff loads the motor down . 
so it 's trying to push the weight plus have all this drain on it from all sorts of belts and things . 
but that 's one good thing 
i 've got a eight ninety chevy blazer now 
and it 's got one belt on it a serpentine belt . 
it 's that one that 's about an inch and a half wide . 
got a bunch of groves in it . 
i have n't had to replace the thing yet . 
i 've got an olds toronado that , i think 's got six belts on the sucker . 
and i had to get all those off when i was replace that water pump . 
and i had to struggle with that for a while to figure which belt goes where . 
it 's kind of like the inside dual on a truck . 
when one of them breaks , it 's not the outside one , 
you bet , 
everything else 's got to come off first . 
everything 's got to come off . 
it 's a pleasure meeting you . 
how many times have you done this ? 
i 've got five stickers here from t i , 
so i guess i 've done probably seven or eight of them . 
this is the first one in a week or so . 
i have n't gotten any calls in two weeks , 
so i do n't know , if it 's tapering off , or what . 
if it 's winding down or what . 
i had a difficult time the past couple of times of getting answers . 
finding a taker . 
it 's taken them ten , fifteen minutes at a time , 
let you go . 
thanks for talking . 
i have a lot of thoughts about the vietnam war , 
i guess i feel like i was pretty young while it was going on 
and so there 's probably a lot of things i remember and a lot of things that i really did n't have a clue as to what was happening . 
looking back maybe some of the things that i know now , i 'm not sure i do believe it was worth the cost in dollars and lives . 
that was one of the questions that she asked us to think about , 
because we never went to war . 
i do n't think we were committed to winning it and getting out 
and i feel like it went on and on . 
and i guess i see such a contrast as opposed to the middle east war we just had , where president bush went out and got worldwide support for what was happening . 
i just feel like maybe we went in to be policeman 
and i 'm not sure that 's our role , 
i agree with that , 
i was fairly young at the time too , 
i really do n't have very many memories about it at all , in fact . 
and my husband is a vietnam veteran 
it frustrates him because of the support that they have and the support that the vietnam vets did not have , from the people or the administration , either one . 
do n't you think that maybe that 's why we had it this time ? 
i do think that , it 's been too long in coming 
so many people were opposed to the war , 
what it translated into was they were opposed to the folks that were there fighting it 
and those guys were there doing their duty . 
that 's right , 
they were n't there by choice 
and i think that we learned from that 
and i think it 's one of those things that you learn the hard way . 
it was a tragic mistake , 
the way that they have been treated over the years 
and i believe that 's just now turning around . just now trying to be rectified 
and i 'm not sure you can undo the damage that was done emotionally , on so many of the people . 
i do n't think you can 
and i agree with you that i think that the time difference between the two wars has allowed a lot of people to see the mistakes that were made in every aspect of it 
and i agree with you also , that i feel like it was not worth the money spent or the lives lost to fight that war . 
they 're still not settled over there . 
they 're not . 
and i have a feeling that the persian gulf crisis is going to be the same way . 
i think we 're going to end up back there in a few years if not sooner . 
i feel like president bush is in a hard spot . 
he went over there to get them out of kuwait , which he did . 
and then he has backed out , 
he has pulled out . 
and i realize they 're still saying , you 're encouraging us to get rid of saddam hussein , 
so why are n't you helping us ? 
and i think him going in and doing that would be putting us in another vietnam situation . 
i think it would too . 
and i do n't think the u s will stand for it . 
i do n't think he would do that , 
i think we learned too much of the effects . 
i agree with that . 
whether it was justified or not , i know , that they probably felt like we were going in for a good cause . 
i feel like maybe they felt like we were doing the right thing to try and help maintain the democracy over there and beat the communism , 
but i think somewhere that got lost in the long term effects of the war 
he said that 's what we were going there to do 
and he did what he said 
and he did pull out before it got any further than that where it would have turned into more of a police action . or more of a political action you getting into their governmental affairs which you really ca n't do as another country . 
my biggest problem with all of these wars is we spend all of that money on all these other countries 
and we have so many problems here at home that we do n't address . 
that we do n't get fixed . 
that 's right . 
i know . 
and that 's what frustrates me more than anything . 
and i believe that we have to have a military 
and i believe that we have to have a defense to keep anybody else from walking in and doing it to us . 
but i also believe that we need to turn so much of that inward . 
i think there 's a lot of waste 
if they could just cut out all the fat and get it lean , and start addressing some of the other issues , i think we could take care of everything . and quit taking care of all these other countries all across the world who just end up using things against us later on anyway . 
i know , 
i think that maybe a lot of the arab countries that were so hateful towards the united states have come away with kind of a different attitude . 
i think that maybe we 're not their big bad enemy any more . 
and i think that 's good , 
i think that 's a good , 
a lot of good has come from this one . 
i think so too . 
and i guess , in , uh , ironic way a lot of good came from the vietnam war toward this war 
because we said earlier , that , a lot of eyes were opened after years and years of that war 
and perhaps the reason that good came out of the mid east war is because we had the experience of vietnam . 
so , i do think that , we 've learned from it , 
i wish there were n't war . 
no kidding . 
but i do think we learned . 
and i just hate the emotional price a lot of the vietnam people paid , for nothing . 
they still do n't know what they were there for . 
there was no feeling of accomplishment , no goal , 
we went in 
but what did we do . 
we lost lives 
and what were we trying to do . 
who knows . 
that 's true . 
and , i think you 're right , 
i think you 're right there . 
i do remember when it was over . 
i remember when they were coming home . 
but , i remember the feeling back then , 
right now , i feel like this country has been behind this war . 
there 's a lot of people that are n't for war . 
i 'm not for war , 
but i believe that the way that it was done and the way that was handled were right . 
i do n't remember that feeling back in vietnam . 
i just remember , our guys are over there 
and it 's sad 
and we should n't be fighting a war 
but there was no , let 's support them . 
when this war broke out it frustrated me all the antiwar people and all the demonstrations that were going on . 
i felt like they got way too much media coverage and publicity 
because those kind of people , they 're the kind of people who 've always got to have a cause , whether it 's good , bad of indifferent . 
they 've got to have a cause 
and , nobody says because you 're supporting the troops that you 're supporting the war . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
you have to support the people that are there . 
that 's right . 
and for some reason those people do n't see that . 
they do n't see it as supporting the folks , the people . 
they do n't 
and they 're just real shallow people . 
i would agree with you there . 
i agree . 
and i recall when president bush said that , 
he said look , 
i 'm sorry that you 're opposed to the war . 
there 's a lot of us that are opposed to war 
but you 're not helping the people that are over there by what you 're doing . 
and i remember a lot of it kind of stopped after that . 
they 're not helping anybody . 
that 's the whole point , 
they 're not doing anything for anybody except themselves . 
that 's true . 
and i do n't even know what they 're doing for themselves . 
giving a soapbox to stand on . 
but i 'm glad we 've learned . 
i 'm sorry we had the experience of vietnam . 
and i 'm especially sorry for the people that have spent all these years trying to deal with it emotionally , 
because until the past four or five years , nobody ever really worried about that , for them . 
that 's true . 
and i think that 's where we as american people really failed them . 
i do n't know . 
do you have anything else you want to say on this ? 
i guess not . 
i think this is the first time that i have n't been cut off by the computer . 
i know , 
we get cut off all the time , too . 
usually i can talk all day 
but this is something to me that 's sad . 
it is . 
have a good day 
and i appreciate the conversation . 
same here . 
what do you think about the metric system ? 
do you find it useable ? 
have you tried much with it ? 
with an engineering , degree , of course , it 's a whole lot easier . 
to use you mean , 
it just absolutely makes perfectly good sense to me because it 's all decimal . 
and it 's so easy to convert from one set of units to another . 
i 've lived both in the united states and in a country where they do use the metric system 
so i 've lived with pounds and inches and found it really quite easy to convert over . 
the secret seeming to me to be to not bother ever converting inches to centimeters and , pounds to kilograms , 
that 's right . 
and , i think that 's what hung people up the most is they went wait a minute , 
an inch is two point fifty-four centimeters , 
how on earth am i every going to do the math ? 
and the problem is that we tried to convert everything from inches to centimeters preserving basically the inches but expressing them as centimeters rather than saying a centimeter is about the width of your thumbnail , or whatever , and leaving it at that 
and a kilogram weighs about this much 
and get used to it from scratch , 
cause i still ca n't convert back and forth from inches to centimeters 
but i 'm perfectly comfortable using either . 
and i think the real problem with this weird conversion , you see signs that say fifty-five miles per hour and whatever it would be one hundred six kilometers per hour , 
it 's hard to take it seriously . 
and as long as both were given , you , basically , just do n't read the kilometers per hour , 
you just say , read the miles per hour one , 
the other one must be for someone else . 
that 's right . 
i do n't know , 
even britain has converted over 
and we inherited this mess from them 
that 's right , 
it 's all their fault . 
it 's more our fault than theirs at this point because they saw the light , 
i do n't know why they were more able than we were 
except i think , that they probably just said we 're just going to start using the things now 
is much more necessary for them than for us . 
that 's true , 
that 's probably true 
and america does have a long history of sort of doing things our own way rather than adopting some other model . 
there 's an expression for that , 
with eyes on the past , backing confidently into the future . 
i 've never heard that one , 
that 's very nice . 
so i 'm all for the metric system and converting over 
i guess , my feeling is the way to do it is to just start giving weights have a very brief transition period and then just start giving kilometers and weights and kilograms and everything like that and just have people start using it rather than having people constantly trying to convert . 
remember me getting a package of something that said one pound , 
this is a package of dates , 
it , was , presumably something you weigh fairly precisely , 
it said one pound 
and then in parenthesis it said four hundred fifty-four point six grams . 
and , as near as i could tell , seeing that was basically anti-metric propaganda 
every time i see something like that i think , that 's an anti-metric argument . 
i do n't think it could ever happen with a quick transition . 
you do n't ? 
i think that would be the easiest way 
but human nature being such as it is , i would think it would take , probably , two or three years before people could completely cut the cord . 
that 's what i was thinking by quick transition , 
i did n't mean like sweden going over to right hand drive or anything , 
at midnight , tonight we all switch over or anything . 
did they switch ? 
i believe so , 
and i think they did it overnight 
cause you ca n't do it gradually . 
that 's an example of something you ca n't do gradually . 
that 's true . 
it has to be kind of a discreet transaction . 
it does . 
a quantum leap from left to right hand drive . 
interesting . 
that was something that had to be done quickly because of external circumstances , 
but they decided to do it to make themselves in sync with the rest of continental europe 
but that must have been tremendously difficult to orchestrate . 
i 'm sure . 
so i think it 's essential that it 's done 
a little more attention to human psychology 
and after all , the whole reason to go over to metric is to have round numbers , 
so they do n't deal with thirty seconds of an inch 
and so 
the thing that was best about metric was the thing that was most poorly represented . 
really , i think . 
we do have the two liter soda pop bottles . 
i saw that , 
i saw that the other day . 
i do n't drink soda pop , 
but i saw a two liter soda pop bottle 
so 
things like that are a good start 
and if you start expressing one liters and one kilograms and then the pounds come in , the odd numbers two point two pounds or something . i think people will start getting a sense of , the metric is the sensible one . 
that 's true . 
sure have enjoyed our talk . 
get back to what you 're doing 
and i 'll do the same . 
i enjoyed talking with you too . 
do you do a lot of cooking in your family ? 
i do some every now and then , 
i work 
and my wife 's home during the day 
so she usually ends up doing most of it . 
when i was single we used to always cook , around the house . 
do you like to cook . 
i really like it , 
there 's a few dishes , 
i grew up with having polish and ukrainian food . 
and my wife , she likes italian and stuff , 
so we definitely have different tastes , 
but that 's neat though , because you get to have different stuff . 
i 'm a pretty bad cook . 
i 'm pretty bad . 
my husband is really good , 
he put himself through college working in restaurants . 
and he 's much better cook than i am , 
so , when i was home i still cooked a lot 
and i was in to a lot of vegetarian stuff . 
and now , i went back to work about a year and a half ago 
so , one of the things that he took over was the cooking 
and the kids are thrilled , 
they 're really happy , that i do n't cook anymore . 
they 're preferring it now . 
they say dad , let dad cook mom , 
let him do it 
but so do you have kids ? 
you obviously have one . 
two , 
you have two . 
one is nine months 
and the other is two and a half . 
two and half . 
i was just going to say , makes a difference in what you eat does n't it . 
or are you not at that stage yet ? 
it does . 
we try our hardest to get them to eat what we , eat . 
and my sister she 's the master of the fast order grill , 
she makes six different meals , 
like to have one thing , 
one likes chicken nuggets , 
the other one like hot dogs , 
i could n't . 
and then she makes noodles , with , soy sauce or whatever , 
i could n't do that , 
but 
let me think , 
i was thinking of the one recipe that we made . 
i guess the thing that always turned out the best for us was something we thought looked really fancy but was real easy , 
what 's that . 
it has a french name , 
it basically means that it has a swiss cheese , cream sauce with it 
and you pour it over rice , 
what is that , 
saint jack or something . 
scallops saint something , 
i ca n't even remember what the recipe 's name is anymore , 
but it was basically just ground up swiss cheese and then standard cream sauce base and then the scallops . 
with scallops . 
and it sounds sort of funny 
but it tastes really good . 
i 'm from new england , 
so we had a lot of seafood before we moved down here . 
and that sounds delicious to me . 
that sounds great . 
we 're just thinking of having , a dinner party . 
we went to this dinner party the other night that was kind of like a game , 
they had a murder mystery , 
and you came dressed as one of the characters 
and you had to solve the mystery during the dinner , 
and it was really fun 
and so we were going to try doing it ourselves , 
but we 're trying to decide what can we serve because at this one the hostess was pretty busy running around trying to get stuff ready for the table 
and that kind of interrupted the game , 
so i was thinking there 's this beef bourguignonne recipe that i 've tried before that 's pretty good 
and then you can make that ahead 
and you can just leave it in the pot on a stove until you 're ready . 
that 's another thing 
i have a problem with my wife , 
she does n't like the beef dishes . 
she likes the chicken and fish , 
and , like i said , we always ate beef and pork a lot , 
i know , 
my husband did too . 
his parents are austrian 
and they always made sure they had a lot of meat at the table . 
red meat , 
plenty of good red meat . 
my dad could eat , a meal with out any vegetables at all . 
my dad would n't know what to do . 
course , she grew up catholic 
there 's a certain amount of meatless meals you have to have . 
that you do , 
that 's just part of it . 
but when i got into the vegetarian cooking we got kind of used to that , 
but my husband always did it kind of grudgingly , 
there was dishes that he really enjoyed , eating . 
there were several things that he liked 
but it never was really , something that he would have chosen . 
it 's just that i cooked 
so he had to put up with it . 
but there was one thing that he could n't stand 
and that was soybeans . 
i tried it once or twice 
and he just could not eat it , 
i was limited . 
i had to make vegetarian meals without using soy beans , 
it 's hard to get a protein content up then . 
that 's true . 
i like them every now and then for a change , 
it 's nice . 
some of the stuff is good , 
but it was a tremendous amount of cooking . 
because you do have to make sure you have the right combinations of different proteins to make sure they 're complete , 
and we had little kids at the time , 
when i was home with them , and it was just so much cooking , 
i do n't like to cook . 
and i 'm not really that great at it 
so it just turned out to be too much cooking . 
so i guess i 'll let you get back to feeding your little one there . 
he 's all done . 
he 's set , 
i set him down . 
do you like to bake at all , 
or do you get into that , 
we used to do that , 
my mom , used to go crazy , every sunday , until my dad blew up . 
after he gained about eighty pounds after coming back from the navy , she stopped doing it . 
but she used to have two dozen sticky buns , three bread rolls every week . 
and the sticky buns would last three or four days 
and that would be it . 
then be gone . 
i know , 
that 's the thing about baking . 
i do n't mind baking at all 
and i can do a pretty good pie , 
we have this pie crust recipe in our family that my grandmother gave my mother 
and my mother taught me how to make it . 
i can make a pretty mean pie , 
but i do n't do it anymore because it 's just too fattening . 
we had the same kind of problem . 
if you make homemade bread , 
it 's supposed to save you money 
but you eat three times the amount of bread that you usually eat . 
it tastes so good . 
you ever seen the starter bread , 
i ca n't remember what it 's called , 
they call it the amish bread here 
you just leave it out , 
and you let it spoil sort of . 
i 've heard of it , 
but i 've never done it . 
. 
that sounds pretty good . 
it tasted pretty good . 
but it 's the sort of thing where you let a portion of it go bad 
and then you add all these other ingredients to it , 
and then you make the bread 
but you pinch off a portion , or save a portion of it for the next time , or something . 
you take some of the batter out and give it to someone else 
and that 's how they continue the thing . 
i do n't know how safe that was . 
i know it sounded strange to me too , 
i figure , you 're baking it 
that 's true , 
that 's got to kill anything i guess , 
i 'll talk to you later . 
where are you calling from by the way , 
texas . 
plano . 
where ? 
plano , in texas . 
plano , 
are you in texas ? 
falls church , virginia . 
it sounds so close . 
i know we 've got a good connection , 
must be a t i connection , 
i thought for sure you were in dallas or something . 
i talked to so many people from texas 
that 's where practically everybody i talked to is from . 
i think that 's why they call me because they want to get people outside the state . 
they 're trying to get all different amount of people . 
my husband is from richmond 
and i went to u v a , 
that 's where we went . 
i went to school at west virginia university , 
you did , 
but i grew up right here in falls church , right outside d c . 
we 'd like to get back over to the east coast , 
i 'll tell you . 
it 's nice over there . 
it 's sort of funny , 
i have people that want to go to dallas . 
one of my friends here , he was just talking how he 's thinking of leaving the company and going to dallas , 
things are doing pretty good down here , 
we tried to move over to raleigh last year 
and there was such little going on in raleigh , 
you could n't get a job to save yourself over there 
so we decided we 'll try in a couple of years , 
we were saying we could sell our house here and buy one down there 
cash . 
you probably could , 
you probably could , 
northern virginia . 
it 's good talking to you . 
nice talking to you too . 
take care . 
what do you think about it ? 
the roles have definitely changed in the last generation or so . 
i think a lot of it has to do with women working . 
i do too . 
in the future , i think all women are going to work . 
they may let you off for a day or two to have your baby , 
but that will be it , 
or either they 'll have a computer at home and in the hospital where you just continue right on with your work . 
it really is coming to that because most women now days can not afford the time that they could take off unless the company pays them . 
they ca n't even afford to take off to have children it seems like . 
and it seems , if you 're going to have kids that society has decided for you how many you can really have and make it . 
because if you have two if you go to work , you 're , just working to pay for day care , 
two or three . 
i was real lucky because my husband had a good enough job where when i had them and when they were small , until my youngest got in junior high , i did n't have to work . 
that is good . 
i did n't work , 
but i did n't . 
steve has a sister who has four . 
she just had her fourth one in march 
and she does n't have to work either . 
i do n't know how they do it . 
i do n't know how people do it with one , 
obviously we do n't have any 
and i think that 's part of the role reversal , is it 's okay to get married and not have kids . 
and i think society for such a long time said , you 're married , 
now you need to have your family 
and i do n't think it 's been until recently that they had decided that two people was a family . 
it 's getting where if you 're going to give your kids any kind of education and stuff you ca n't hardly afford to have over two . 
and it 's hard with two , 
i have two , 
i have a son and a daughter , 
and my youngest one is going to be graduating from college soon , 
and if i had a third one , i just do n't know where it would come from . 
because i work now , 
i work full time 
when you put them through college it just takes just about everything you got . 
they get loans and grants and scholarships and stuff like that , 
that helps out , 
but still , it cost a lot . 
just the cost of living 
and loans do n't pay for groceries and stuff . 
and cars and all their books , 
and the books are outrageous absolutely outrageous , 
i know , 
i know . 
and they 're getting worse . 
my daughter brought home a book the other day that she was going to have to have for one of her next classes 
and it was ninety-six dollars . 
and this book is a little bitty skinny book . 
i said is it , lined in gold . 
but it 's getting worse , 
and , if i 'd of probably had three or four children , i do n't see how we could have made it without me working . 
i guess it 's always not being able to picture one more , 
but in essence you probably would have worked out fine . 
but i think i would have had to work . 
even though he brings in a real good living and everything , in order for me to keep up , i would have had to work . 
but i think it 's getting more and more like , when you have one child that 's it , 
then you go to work 
and you work , 
because if you have two or three kids , by the , way the inflation 's going i think a woman 's always going to have to work 
and it 's just going to be an accepted thing . 
there is n't going to be any of this , 
very few people will ever stay home . 
and that 's all right with me , because i do n't want to stay home 
i think i would just go nuts sitting at home all day long . 
i ca n't imagine how i did , because now i work all the time , 
and i work all week , 
and i ca n't imagine how i stayed home . 
i think to myself , what did i do . 
and i think it revolutionized , 
my daughter , there 's no way that she can imagine herself married at the age that she 's at now . 
to her everything is , you 've got to go through college , you 've got to get a job . 
and then when everything 's set up , then you look for somebody that you want to spend the rest of your life with , 
but it is so far down the road , 
, that 's what you did . . 
and then you got married 
and then you had a family . 
that 's just the way it was . 
and the woman stayed home and took care of them , 
i like the way it is . 
we 're from houston 
and so it 's not so hard for people , 
you 've been married three or so years 
and you do n't have kids , 
it 's okay , 
nobody does . 
but you come to a place like belton , 
a lot of the kids here get married out of high school . 
it 's real small town , 
we 're the only couple in our sunday school class , except for one other couple , who are in their forties , who do n't have children . 
and they ca n't imagine why we would want to have children . 
not everybody has to have kids , 
it 's your turn . 
whenever i was coming up and everything 
and we got married right out of high school , 
a year after i got out of high school , 
and i did n't have kids for four and a half years 
but that was because i wanted to work 
and i was n't ready for kids . 
i think that 's what it is , 
i 'm not either . 
and , everybody thought , what is the matter with her . 
they 're probably going , i bet she ca n't get pregnant 
they thought that it was terrible , 
but that you better just get ready now . 
you do n't just get ready . 
but i was kind of odd because as a general rule the people that married during my time , they had kids within a year . 
and i just was not ready for kids . 
i wanted to get out and work a little bit 
and i wanted to travel and stuff like that , which we did . 
and kids did n't fit in right then , 
but , it 's getting more and more like that where there 's more and more couples 
i do n't care what anybody tells you . 
and i think that more and more the attitude 's getting that a way . 
because that 's like my daughter 
she says that maybe when she 's thirty she might want a child then . 
and even though i 'd like to have grandchildren , i can see her point . 
steve 's mom finally said that god will take care of us when it 's our time . 
she finally told me it 's okay if you do n't , 
but it took every nerve in her body to say that because she 's from a very , very old fashioned family . 
and , she stayed home and raised her kids 
and she expected all of her kids to do that too , and their wives to be the housewife and have dinner ready by five and be there at every beck and call 
and , i was raised totally opposite . 
how we got together , i do n't know , 
because my mother had six girls , 
and she worked too . 
and i saw how life was when she stayed home 
and it was rough , 
it was hard , 
and it really is , 
i know , 
just like now there 's so much more now . 
all my income goes for things like luxuries , 
it really does . accept for what we give to my daughter , to put her through college and stuff . 
but the rest of it we just buy things like boats , 
or we go on trips , 
or just the more or less like entertainment stuff , 
i think you 've earned that though . 
i feel like i have because we 're just a age now , 
i 'm not old 
but , i 'm older . 
and i got to stay home with my kids , which i really wanted to do , 
but now i could not go back and do it . 
i really could n't , 
i do n't think i could stay home all the time and do nothing . 
and i did stuff 
but , to me it feels like i must have done nothing . 
and i think it 's just the new way that people are thinking . 
i think so . 
i think it would be neat if they could incorporate into small and large businesses both a built in day cares where the children were there in the facility but not necessarily right there with you . 
more and more of them are , 
i do n't know if it is up there where you are 
but where i am , just all the hospitals , they 're getting day care . 
are they ? 
like you said if you had four kids , or even if you had two kids , you would be paying all your salary to pay for those two kids to go . 
more and more of our hospitals , especially , over here are getting them 
and then some of the bigger companies , 
but it 's mainly the hospitals . 
i do n't know if the t i in dallas does or not . 
i know nobody around here does , it , 
it 's too small around here . 
i 'm pretty pro gun control over all . 
i 've had a lot of arguments with people about the issue of gun control 
and i must say that there are a couple of arguments against strong gun control which i find very compelling , although most who argue gun control with me i find use sort of canned arguments sort of the n r a slogan arguments 
and i 've been very frustrated when i do debate with people about it . 
i guess on a scale of one of ten i 'm probably around a two in terms of 
and i have to admit most of that is strong personal distaste . 
i do n't like the idea of people being able to kill me with very little effort . 
and guns are very symbolic of them having that power over me . 
i hope you 're ready for this . 
i 'll give it a try . 
i 've got my texan stereotypes in place . 
i 'm not your stereotypical texan . 
i was raised around guns , hunting . 
so i do n't have a fear of fire arms in any respect . 
i respect them and what their capabilities are . 
and on top of that spending a good portion of my earlier years in the military , as a green beret , i definitely respect the power of weaponry . 
it 's pretty is n't it ? 
and here you go , 
this will be border line n r a which i am not a member of . 
you 've heard the slogan if you outlaw guns then only out laws will have guns . 
that applies to anything as well as guns . 
any of the big cities you 've got the different rival gangs 
and they 're having their little turf wars over their little drug kingdoms and such , 
and they get out their little mac tens , 
they get out their little uzis 
and they 're going to fight with them . 
and it does n't matter what restrictions you put on that type of weapon or a class three firearm . 
if they want it they 'll get it . 
i do n't care if they 've got to go down into new mexico to get it 
they 'll get it 
and they 'll get across the border . 
since i am a law-abiding citizen and i have never had a felony , if i wanted to buy one , i do n't think there should be that big of a restriction on it . 
if they want to run a background check on me . 
if they want to put a seven day waiting period again . 
if they want me to present a letter from my county sheriff saying that i 've got his permission to have an automatic weapon in his county , that 's fine too . 
you do n't want to have someone making a personal trust in that way , i would hope . 
the personal sheriff does n't get to have a gun 
is this guy a convicted felon ? 
is he a habitual trouble maker ? 
are we picking him up every saturday , for a drunk and disorderly 
and if he had an automatic weapon could he really be raising some problems . 
just proving that you 're basically a good citizen . 
you just told me that you 're going to get one of those guns anyway . 
if they want the firepower they can get it . 
because it does n't matter how restrictive your border control points are 
they 'll get it across the border one way or the other . 
so why have any restrictions at all ? 
go back to that one to ten scale where one , being , full gun control , ten being none . 
i 'd said about an eight . 
i 'd like to see a law enforcement agency , not n r a , 
but whether it be your state police or your county police for you to be able . you got to go through their course and get certified that you know how to properly handle the weapon , how to safely handle the weapon , how to properly maintain it , the three basics . 
that makes a lot of since to me . 
i certainly feel that we may disagree on when someone should own a fire arm 
but i certainly agree that if someone owns a fire arm that . 
in the hands of the wrong person the car can be just as deadly as the weapon , as a pistol . 
i have a bicycle 
and that scares me too to tell you the truth because i 've been run off the road and all sorts of things . 
i 'm still puzzled though , 
what is the argument , 
how does the argument work if the bad guys are going to have guns anyway . 
basically , the restrictions are just to penalize the good guys because the bad guys are going to get the guns anyway 
they 're not going to take those courses . 
is it a way of raising the prices of illegal guns ? 
if it 's not going to cut the supply of illegal guns it must 
does that mean advantage ? 
not necessarily a price thing . 
you 're from california ? 
l a area ? 
bay area . 
san francisco , bay area . 
you 've been to the city ? 
and all these people come around , 
as it stands now if he pulls a blade on me we 're equally matched because i can meet him blade for blade . 
i 'm out with my family 
we 've gone shopping , 
we 're fixing to get in the car , 
this guy comes up , 
he pulls a blade on me . 
i can pull a gun on him now . 
and when you 're looking down the barrel of a hand cannon things change real quick . 
what if you 're looking down the barrel of a hand cannon ? 
then it 's still equally matched . 
having spent time in combat i feel it before they 'll get the gun on me . 
if i walk into a bad neighborhood i 'm sure i 'd want to walk through with you because i 'm sure you have far above the average instinct for how to use guns and how to use them effectively and everything . 
in this sort of wild west scenario , you 're going to get an awful lot of people shooting guns pretty quickly just given human nature . 
you 're going to start getting a lot of gunfire . 
it 's hard for me to imagine that if everyone you 're not going to have an increase in gunfire . 
it 's more of a police action in itself , 
the fact that everybody is packing a piece is a deterrence for someone saying , i 'm going to mug this guy right here 
but he 's carrying just as much firepower as i can . 
and if you got to go through a certification course to get to where you can carry it in public , then this individual also knows this guy 's pretty good with it . 
whether this person is made the moral decision whether he can take another human life or not , that 's another trip , 
in defense of myself , defense of my family or defense of my friends i can blow somebody a way in a heart beat . even more so when it comes to my wife and son . 
anybody tries to hurt them i wo n't even blink , 
i know , 
i understand that . 
what if you think someone 's trying to hurt them and you make a mistake ? 
this is where the question of gun control comes in . 
that was the topic . 
what , i consider gun control is being able to hit my target with the first shot . 
all of a sudden my combat in me goes up 
and say i 've got the vibes , this guy 's fixing to do something , 
i go ahead and pull my piece . 
and i make sure this persons sees it so that he 's got now doubt that i will use it on him and i will use it right then . 
if he does n't back up at that point he deserves what he gets because i have sent the clearest signal you mess with me , you mess with my family , i 'm going to dust you . 
as it stands now i 've got to do that with a blade . 
and the only reason i feel comfortable doing that is because of the training i 've had . 
as someone who would possibly be in the role of an independent bystander , i feel more comfortable with people having blades because you 're not going to get bullets flying around killing people instantly 
if i 'm the one doing the shooting i do n't miss . 
that 's the kind of training i 've had . 
i do n't know what you think about the , subject , 
, i had never really thought of what they said before about allowing the sentencing to go to the judge instead of the jury and allowing him to do that . 
i 've been kind of sitting here thinking about that a little bit while i was waiting for them to phone somebody , 
and i do n't know that that 's not a good idea . 
that 's not a bad idea 
they probably , need to change it somehow , 
the whole system needs changing , 
we 've just got too many people in there , and are putting too many people in jail that probably do n't need to be there 
i agree . 
and it 's another form of sentencing . 
but on that one thing , i still think it should be a unanimous decision , 
i agree . 
i think we 're getting to the point now where they 're going to eventually let it be majority vote . 
and that 's not going to be good . 
i do n't like that , 
i do n't like that at all . 
i know my husband served on a jury a few months ago up here in denton , 
but it was a drug conviction 
and i do n't remember 
he had some cocaine and was accused of selling it , 
and i do n't remember exactly how much he had 
but actually not selling it , 
there 's a difference , 
and , he was a courier . 
and he sat on that jury 
and they found him guilty , 
and they went through the sentencing phase and everything 
and they were told during the trial that this is this guy 's first offense 
and he 's got this clean record , 
the jury decided , it 's time to crackdown here , 
and it was time to do this drug thing 
and let 's crackdown 
and they sentenced him to fifteen years which they thought that that was a good thing . 
and they sentencing him to fifteen years 
and after it was all over they sit down with the judge and with the other two lawyers 
and they were told that he would probably serve three , of the fifteen , and that he had three previous convictions . 
however , they could not tell the jury that during the trial because all three of them were in appeal . 
so , the jury did n't know about it , 
so here they based their sentencing thinking that this was this guy 's first offense , 
so , we 'll give him fifteen which will teach him a lesson 
but it 's just , horrible , since it was first offense 
and he 'd been convicted three times before , 
and the jury was very upset 
and my husband came home , very upset , 
he felt that they had been tricked , 
i wonder if a judge did n't have control of that if some of that would change . 
the judge might know 
or at least it would n't hurt to switch over there and see if it worked any better , 
if it did n't we can come back for something else 
that 's true . 
that 's very true . 
we definitely need a change in the system 
obviously what we are doing is not working . 
it 's not working , too . 
it 's just piling up on us . 
and there 's people in our prisons that are not being rehabilitated in any way , shape , or form , 
and either they 're in there , forever 
or when they get out it 's a matter of a few months 
and they 're going to be right back for the same thing 
we 're just a society not willing to spend the time or the money to do what it takes , 
that 's very true . 
i was talking to a friend of mine about this the other day 
and the people in those countries rely on our money to survive 
but i really believe that we need to take care of ourselves , 
i know people say it would be cruel to pull our aid from these other countries 
and maybe so , 
so tell them , you 've got five years . to work out a plan , to make it on your own . 
and , we will continue funding you for the next two years , 
after two years we 'll cut it down seventy-five percent . 
and after another year we 'll cut it fifty percent , 
by then you all should have a plan worked where you can make it on your own without our help . 
and then we will have the money if we would do that to work on your own system because we 've got some serious problems here 
and we 're trying to , heal the world , 
very serious . 
it 's just not working . 
you 're right . 
i look at the aid presented to the kurds 
and i feel sorry for them 
and i know they 're suffering 
and i know they 're dying everyday , 
but we 've got kids here in the united states that are dying everyday , too and being , abused and neglected 
and i do n't know . 
i just have this problem with trying to heal the world when you 're so sick yourself , 
you bet . 
we seem to agree on the jury thing 
but , we 'll need an unanimous verdict 
and , maybe let the judge have a opportunity to make , a decision . 
i think we should try it , like you say , 
if it does n't work , we can always come back , 
but i think it would be a good idea to try it . 
i do too . 
so , anyway we all agree . 
good . 
good to hear from you . 
you too . 
do you have any pets ? 
we got two cats . 
two cats . 
my family had cats when we were growing up the whole time until my mom developed an allergies , 
so i 'm used to having cats around , 
i like them . 
i like having pets around in general 
i favor dogs over cats actually 
i 'm not a dog person at all . 
i 'm a dog person . 
i guess it depends on what you had when he were a kid ? . 
probably , 
i was allergic to dogs when i was a kid , in fact , 
i may still be , 
but not cats . 
i wonder sometimes . 
but we house sat for my wife 's boss a couple weeks ago 
and he has a dog and everything , 
we were sitting the dog and everything 
and i felt just miserable all weekend 
and it really did n't dawn on me until sunday , 
it was maybe you 're still allergic to the dog . 
it was that could be it . 
the thing i do n't like about dogs sometimes is that the house will just reek , of the dogs , and constantly . 
dogs are real high maintenances , 
you got to take them for walks 
and you 've got to pay a lot , 
you need to pay attention to cats and everything 
but it 's not quite the same thing . 
that 's true . 
and it 's just nice that cats , you do n't have to let them outside , 
all cats are indoor cats , 
so you 're not worried about them running all-around the neighborhood 
limited . 
it 's a pain to clean 
they got great stuff out now for cleaning cats ' pans . 
when i was growing up i had a clean the cat pan all the time , 
and i hated it because i had to carry everything upstairs and use this thing to take the stuff out and put it in the toilet and everything 
it was really terrible . 
but now you get these liners , that is garbage bags , 
that sounds so easy , 
what i did , 
the cats do it in there , 
you pull it and take it out and throw it away , 
and that 's it , . 
i housesat cats for a friend of mine which she was finishing up her thesis , 
and what we used to do was just put newspaper on the bottom and then put cat litter 
and then i would just take the whole thing to the garbage can and dump the whole thing . 
same idea . 
then i would do it everyday or two days so i would clean that pan very , very rarely , 
everyday ? 
and so it was n't so bad . 
i see . 
two cats and just as easy 
it just never started smelling , 
all of her animals that she ever had were adopted . 
she 's got one dog now and the two cats 
and her dog there is basically a reject , 
somebody had bought him , and wanted him . 
it was her ex boyfriend 
and just was not mature enough to keep the dog , did n't realize how much work it was 
and she 's stuck with it . 
and she 's just so kindhearted that she just takes all the animals 
but i think that for me my husband just has completely nixed the idea of having a dog or a cat . 
because that 's all there is to it . 
so , you know , 
so , you do n't have anything right now ? 
we do n't have anything right now . 
except the kid , 
now we have a kid 
but he was completely against having a dog or cat , 
he said , they 're as much work as a kid , 
and they 're harder to get rid of for the weekend , . 
we can leave them for a weekend as long as we put plenty of food out , 
and it 's not a big deal really , 
they 're happier when we 're around 
but they 're pretty much okay by themselves , 
and we could n't do that with a dog . 
that 's really true . 
but other friends of mine have cats , 
they have four of them , 
and if they go away , they hire a pet sitter to come in twice a day and pet them and things like that 
and their cats they 're so used to the attention , that if they do n't get it , they get really upset , 
that 's , pampering the petals . 
and they sort of cause trouble around the house and things like that . 
so i tried to have a goldfish , 
and i killed that one within a very short amount of time . 
but they 're not that much fun , 
you ca n't take them for a walk , 
you ca n't , 
they ca n't fetch , 
they ca n't do anything , 
i think we had fish when i was a kid 
my brother had fish when i was a kid 
i remember that , 
and one of his fish jumped out of the fish tank . and fried itself , , on the radiator behind the dresser . 
i 'll never forget that 
because i remember my brother , he came home 
and he counted the fish 
and one of the fish was missing 
and they could n't find it anyplace , 
they could n't figure out what had happened 
it was not gross , 
i did n't see it 
trying to remember 
we had a dog for a while , 
and i do n't know if we got rid of the dog 
because my brother was allergic to it , 
my brother had asthma and some allergies which i think he 's outgrown now , 
but because of that we did n't have very many pets afterwards 
and then he had fish . 
like you say , they 're not the most exciting pet to have . 
i do n't know , 
they 're pretty and everything 
but i 've just never seen the attraction of having fish . 
it 's not as much fun . 
a friend of mine had an eel , 
an eel ? 
i forget what type of fish it was , 
it was one of these fish that it ate a big other fish and things like that . 
there would be sort of moby fish in a tank . 
now we really get sick . 
i could n't see having fish like that . 
i could see having , maybe some of the tropical fish , that are really , really pretty 
i remember a friend of mine at work telling me that at his frat in college that they had a tank of piranha , and used to drop mice in 
these are n't cats , , 
this is gross . 
what did they do , 
everyone come around and watch them . 
i guess that 's fine if you have a mouse problem at your frat house , and your things destroyed the mice . 
a cat will do the same trick . 
let 's see , 
i had a pet rat , , for a while , 
and it was a live rat , 
and this woman just offered it to me while i was in graduate school 
and , she was actually a very fun pet . 
i had a friend in college who had a pet rat for a while . 
i forget how she got it , 
but it was the same kind of a deal 
i think she was a psych major 
and she got it from the psych department . 
how did this work , 
a mill rat had been bought 
and the people in the lab one day called in my friend and said this rat is acting really strange 
i think he 's sick , 
and she said , i do n't think he 's sick , 
i think she 's pregnant , . 
and so she asked me if i want one of those babies , 
and i took the baby 
and i got her when she was just this tiniest little thing like , half the price of a mouse , 
i had pictures of her when she would sit on my hand 
and then she grew to be pretty big a pound or something 
i do n't know how much , 
and i had her for over two years 
and she was very affectionate . 
she would crawl on me 
and she would sit on my neck or my shoulder while i was working , and things like that . much more than you would think . 
if you get them young and everything before they go , kind of nuts , 
rats are not my favorite animals in the world , 
but i could see getting one from birth and everything . 
sort of weird for me to have had one too 
it was a convenient little pet to have because it stayed in its cage 
and it was easy to take care of 
i have friends with hamsters and gerbils 
and they tell me the same thing . 
again it gets into much fun , what , i guess they can be . 
actually it was more fun than you would think . starting from the beginning 
we also live in the city now , actually in manhattan . 
it 's not fair to a pet to have a pet here , or certainly not a dog , 
people do , 
plus the pooper scooper new york , 
you see all these stately people , and well dressed people out walking their dogs with their plastic bag or their piece of paper for them , 
it 's really kind of funny . 
i was living in northern jersey when that law came through , remember hearing all about it , 
we were wondering if they had any special law for the horses in central park . 
they do n't . 
of course , not . 
they have the bags behind them 
but i think they 're actually supposed to keep them clean 
hit the bags . 
just the smell is so bad , of the horses . 
i have n't been up there , 
last time i was there was fall so probably was n't that bad . 
it 's not that long ago . 
it was twelve times , of the year . 
not this past fall 
it was almost october of eighty-five , 
i think was the last time i was up there and at center park . 
i had a friend who went to colombia 
and i used to go up and visit her . 
that 's not too far from were we live , 
you said you had two cats , 
, are they breed cats or anything 
they 're just mutts , 
my wife got them from , uh friend of hers at work and everything as kittens , 
and this was before we even met . 
she 's had them for a couple years . 
and they 're really cute , 
they 're sisters , 
one of them is a lot bigger than the other one 
and , , she pushes the other one away from the food . 
apparently i do n't know all the details 
but they were born around christmas because one of them is named tinsel 
and the other one is named holly . 
they 're both females ? 
both females , they 're both spayed or neutered , 
and they 're both declawed at least on the front claws . 
the general topic is hobbies . 
let 's hear about your hobbies . 
let 's see , 
what kind of hobbies do i have ? 
i guess it 's more not so much a hobby but things i enjoy doing . 
i enjoy playing basketball and basically all kinds of sports . 
any handicrafts ? 
excuse me . 
any handicrafts ? 
not really 
i 'm really not too creative 
i leave that more up to my mom . 
i think it will become resume writing . 
let 's hope that you are n't employed by that craft for too long . 
i hate to think about it 
and i 'm getting rather good at reading want ads . 
what kind of time frame is it looking for the different shifts up there ? 
who knows . 
basically , i had read that they 're just looking at relocating them all to mckinney texas , 
i 'm sure the number 's somewhere classified 
so , it 's approximately six fifty , 
so ten percent of six fifty , is sixty-five 
and twenty percent would be one thirty . 
how about that . 
that 's what it did report was a hundred and thirty relocating down to mckinney . 
that 's possible . 
how about that . 
that 's unfortunate 
are you in the defense ? 
is it many other corporations in the area ? 
i saw seven eleven that was hiring . 
i think it went to lockheed , did n't it ? 
i hear they 're hiring all over the place for that . 
apple 's coming to town 
and that has some opportunities 
is that ad good just to colorado or to colorado springs ? 
colorado springs specifically , 
how about that . 
and , m c i -s coming if , telemarketing is your bag . 
personally i 'd rather die a slow painful death 
you in the computer operations or in the actual manufacturing ? 
i 'm a defense worker . 
i 'm , government tool control specialist . 
that 's why i was in the deseg down here in plano also . 
are you still employed ? 
am i still employed by t i , 
i took a leave of t i back in november . 
actually , december was my first month away from them . 
exempt or ? 
exempt . 
unfortunately for myself it was purely by my own choice . 
there was no incentive for myself to leave , 
but it was just an opportunity arose 
and decided to take it . 
so , you did n't even get the severance package . 
i should have taken the , option when that was there , 
but it was just , i missed it by a couple months . 
but what can one do . 
i 'm just happy still to have a job . 
are you happy with what you are doing now ? 
i am kind of happy with it , 
it 's getting better all the time , 
i knew it would be different from the very beginning , 
i was in the computer operations 
it all starts to become similar 
there 's benefits 
and there 's things that were n't as good , 
but as an overall package , i 'd say i 'm pretty happy so far with the way it 's turned out . 
it has n't been a long time 
or i 'm significantly shaken by the situation , but not devastated . 
the one thing at least in your favor is the fact that , that is more in the support of the manufacturing 
to tell you the truth , i 'm not really worried . 
that 's great . 
that 's good . 
and i seem rather happy about it most of the time , just to know , what might happen . 
sometimes it 's good just to have everything out on the table . 
but still in all , it feels funny . 
it may be a blessing in disguise . 
i know a number of people who are surplused 
actually , the positions that they found outside of the company were much , much better than the ones that they currently had inside . 
so , despite the fact that i should be tying flies or fly fishing or going for walks in the mountains , i ca n't seem to get into it right now . 
situational . 
i doubt i 'll be here in six months . 
would you like to be there ? 
all things being equal . 
or even somewhere better , 
but this is much better than west texas . 
but then they tell me hell is much better than west texas . 
that whole area is actually quite nice . 
my little brother lives in austin right now . 
that 's a beautiful place . 
goes to u t . 
that 's just fantastic down there . 
this is your opportunity to do whatever you want , 
pick out where you want to live , 
and then once you pick that spot out , pick out what you want to do . 
that 's the problem . 
for the last many years i 've more or less let them direct what i want to do , and where i want to go . and just kind of go with the punches . 
and now i feel lost . 
it takes a bit of a shift does n't it . 
i had job offers . 
but , i never found the one that was worth it . 
the best thing about it is that you can try something 
if you do n't like it move on to something else . 
that 's the way i would have looked at the whole thing here , 
i 'll take a chance , 
if i do n't like it , i 'll go someplace else , do something different . 
had you been with t i long when you changed ? 
five years . 
. there 's a noticeable difference there . 
i 've been with them sixteen . 
actually , seventeen now , 
momentum is , uh , driving force in our lives . 
i 'm looking . 
that 's good , 
you 've got a good attitude about it . 
and i 'm looking at it as a change . 
and i 'm looking at it as an adventure . 
there you go . 
that 's the way to do it . 
and maybe i 'll wet a fly line this year and do some camping if i do n't get laid off between now and then . 
there you go , 
that 's the thing to do . 
that 's much funner than doing any kind of job . 
, how about we end this ? 
that will work out just fine . 
nice talking to you . 
nice talking to you . 
so this is an appropriate topic the day after earth day , 
what do you think is the main pollutants in the air ? 
i have trouble with the chemical plants and things like that 
i think they put off so much 
and they 're not regulated enough . 
that 's me too . 
on channel thirteen they had some programs the day before , 
and i 'm not sure about yesterday , 
we did n't really watch it too much yesterday , 
but the day before they had a lot of programs about the environment and how we 're affecting the earth and things by what we do 
and they mentioned sulfur and carbon dioxide a lot , 
and that actually as our population increases and our number of cars increase per the population , that 's the problem . 
but also like you said the industry pollution 
and their regulation that 's placed on them it 's better than it used to be 
but it 's incredible that they 're not made to regulate the amount of pollutants that they put into the air . 
i ca n't stand that 
they 're supposed to be regulated because we have a pillsbury plant , in a town adjacent to ours , 
of course , you would n't think pillsbury would put out certain chemicals , 
but they put out toxic chemicals there just in some of what they do to make their dough and to , clean out the flour and stuff like that , 
it 's incredible . 
and they said that they have a little creek that runs by them 
and some of the people that work there have told me that when they have inspectors coming they shut down everything and they clean up their act , but on a normal basis that they 're dumping things , that they 're not supposed to be dumping , 
and i 'm if they 're getting away with it , can you imagine , 
that 's a pillsbury plant 
i ca n't imagine plants , 
they have chemicals that they use to refine their flours with and stuff to break the flours down 
and then they also do testing there , 
when you consider it 's probably not radioactive 
but toxic can be anything that 's classified that can damage the earth . 
in packaging 
and just . 
i do n't think they do the packaging at this plant , 
but they do a lot of research 
and they do a lot of the refining up there 
what 's it called when you do flour , 
only thing i can think is bleaching 
but i do n't know how they do the flour . 
but we 're on the southwest side of houston 
the east side does . 
we 've got imperial sugar 
and they 're right there on the creek also 
and they 've been there for years . 
you think about it , , 
i 'm not really sure 
but i would think it would be easier to detect those things because you could detect them down stream , 
or you can do testing on the ground itself at that point , 
but when they pollute into the air and you 've got movement through the air , it 's going to move a lot of that off . 
unless it just hangs there in places where it 's a lot of pollution in los angeles or the bigger cities where it tends to get stuck there , 
you know , that you have a lot more particles in the air per particles in the surrounding community because it 's not moved away , 
i know that , 
i worry every now and then , 
we 're still on a well water , 
we 're not on city water , 
i 'm not sure , 
i ca n't remember the name of the county 
it 's where stillwater is , 
i 'm not sure , 
i know it , 
i know we have a piece property there , 
it 's called dublin , 
it 's in dublin , texas . 
it 's stephen , 
stephenville . 
where stephenville 's at , they 've had a lot of problems because they 've introduced a lot of dairies there , 
so , they have a lot of cattle in the area , 
it 's not like it was a big ranch where they let the cow roam around free , 
they 've got to have them there to be able to milk them . 
and i read in this article where one cow a day , produces a hundred or so pounds of manure . 
one cow , 
i was my god , 
and this thing says that , people think , cow manure is good for fertilizer 
when you buy cow manure at the store they 've added stuff to it 
and they 've added humus and stuff that , breaks it down , 
what it 's doing is it 's going through , 
their natural water , 
but it 's below the surface 
it 's not very far down , 
and all this stuff is seeping through to the water , 
and they 're afraid that within a certain amount of years , that their water in that town will be totally polluted , 
it will . 
and they wo n't be able to have any drinking water because they will have completely polluted , so that there 's too many toxins and bacterial growth , 
and i 'm my god just from them introducing dairy farms , in that one county . 
and the ground will filter some of it but not all of it . 
i did n't realize one cow produces that much manure 
and they were talking thousands cows in one little tiny area . 
these are well fed . 
these are well fed cows , , 
they are evidently . 
but evidently a normal cow produces that much too , 
but they 're just so spread out on ranches and stuff that it 's not a problem , 
but when they get them in these tiny little areas they 've got a real big problem , 
and they said that what they were doing was scraping it with bulldozers and stuff , and taking it to these ponds that they had to filter it with , 
but the ponds because they 've had so much rain in the past few years , they just , overflow 
and they overflow into the creeks and stuff in the area . 
and it was just disgusting 
it said the creeks will foam . 
people stand outside their houses and watch the creeks foam brown and all , 
that 's bad . 
and i 'm just , 
, i was going to say , the air pollution alone there just from a hundred pounds of cow manure was going to be bad . 
but i do n't know 
it really frightens me though as far as thinking of just air pollution itself 
and , channel thirteen they 're really emphasizing the problem with acid rain , 
if we keep putting that stuff into the air and if we keep creating the problem and not doing anything about it it 's really going to be a problem for the earth , what the earth is receiving back because how can you tell where it 's going to come down at . 
and then cutting the trees that bothers me . 
the rain forest and all . 
not me 
but it 's been suggested that we cut a few of the trees down here , 
i 'm no , 
for what 's cut down here more will be cut down someplace else 
and it will just take that longer to grow back , 
they do because carbon dioxide , they use that where we ca n't synthesize it 
and they 're synthesizing it for us . 
believe me it 's just so much better . 
so 
i knew , 
i think there 's lots that could be done to improve how things are done now . 
i do n't know personally , 
nowadays they have the emission controls on them 
seems like they 've only just really started as far as the environment saying , we 're really going to get involved 
it 's really becoming a problem . 
what are we going to have , 
what kind of results are we going to have for the environment . 
this is really ironic that i would get this subject today because just yesterday our dog ran away . 
and it 's just been tearing me up all day . 
i bet . 
because we have just been looking all over for him . 
we 've been to the pound , 
we 've been to the humane society , 
we 've been to the adoption center , 
we 've just been all over the neighborhood , 
we 've been calling neighbors . 
so this is just really strange . 
i guess so . 
have you lost him before ? 
this is the first time . 
he 's gotten out before , 
but he 's always stayed right here , 
he 's never gone away . 
what kind of a dog is he ? 
he 's part golden lab and part alaskan , 
not alaskan . 
i always forget . 
australian shepherd . 
and 
he 's a big one . 
he 's pretty big . 
that 's why it really surprises me that he has n't come back , because , like i said , he 's never gone away like this before , 
and , i would think he could get hurt by a car or something . 
i do n't know that he could really get killed that easily because he is so big . 
but , i do n't know . 
i hope he comes back , 
that 's too bad . 
i do , too . 
how long have you had him ? 
about two years . 
that 's tough . 
you get very attached to animals , do n't you ? 
is n't that funny how we do ? 
they 're always there for you 
and they do n't talk back to you . 
and it 's kind of pleasant . 
they 're companions , 
do you have any ? 
we have a dog , a little white lhasa . 
and her name is angel . 
and we have a cat , a white cat . 
he 's just a tabby , 
and his name is dominique . 
we call him neek . 
how do they get along together ? 
pretty good . 
we had the dog first , 
and she 's kind of a wimp 
and the cat kind of rules , 
but she likes him all right . 
we had another cat about two years ago . 
it got leukemia , feline leukemia 
so we had to have it put to sleep , 
and then we got this new cat , 
so . i have two children 
and they really enjoy the animals . 
and then my mother who 's very elderly lives with us , 
and she 's really good friends with the dog . 
they 're very , good buddies . 
that 's what are so neat about animals , 
like i said , they 're really companions , 
and they 're friends . 
that 's right . 
you can love them all you want 
and they love you right back 
that 's right . 
they do n't care what you look like , or what you act like , 
they just love you , unconditionally . 
i know . 
it 's wonderful . 
it 's just so neat , 
i do n't know , 
this is just so hard . 
i know it has to be . 
it 's like i said , 
we 've had him for two years 
he 's gotten out , 
but he 's always been right there . 
he 's never been gone at all 
he 's just always been right there when he gets out . 
it 's the first time he 's ever been gone like this . 
that 's really too bad , 
that 's awful , 
i just knew today that we looked at the pound , and that we just went all over the place , 
and i knew we were going to find him , 
and when we did n't it was , . 
so i do n't know . 
i hope you 'll find him . 
you most likely will . 
they told us at the humane society and the adoption center do n't give up hope , 
not yet . 
have you put any posters up or anything like that ? 
we were talking about that tonight since he just got out yesterday 
we were trying to find some pictures of him recently . 
we 've got so many when he was a puppy , 
but we just do n't have a whole lot . 
we have him on film on the video camera . 
you sure ca n't . 
so , i do n't know , 
we will put some posters and stuff up . 
that 's good . 
and hopefully that will help maybe around the neighborhood . 
but , we know a lot of people that live in this neighborhood , 
they can keep their eyes open , 
that will help . 
i think that if he gets out he 'll come back . 
i really do , because he knows exactly where he lives , 
he will . 
i bet he does . 
i know , that it 's hard on you . 
i know that i 'd be worried , too . 
i know . 
it 's just so ironic that this would happen and i would get this kind of a call . 
is n't it , though ? 
i know , 
it 's very strange 
i know sometimes our cat will stay out all night , 
and when he 's not right at the door in the morning i really worry that something 's happened to him , that he 's got in a fight or somebody 's hit him 
and if he does n't come by mid morning , then i really get scared . 
but he 's always come back eventually 
that 's good . 
that 's one thing about cats though , 
they 're so small 
and they can get hurt a lot easier . 
they can get hurt a lot easier , 
they can . 
so that would make you really , tend to worry about them if they 're not right there 
but he 's a real feisty guy . 
he fights with other cats in the neighborhood because he does n't want them on our property . 
is that right ? 
cats are really almost more territorial than dogs are . 
they just really do not want other animals on their property . 
any cat that comes near , and even a dog he wo n't jump at them or anything , 
but he 'll sit 
and he 'll watch , 
and , i think maybe he would if it came real close , 
but he 's very protective of our property . 
i guess i really do n't know cats that well because my mother never liked them , 
so i never had them growing up , 
so i never really had them around me , 
they 're really a lot different than dogs because they 're very independent , 
and he 's very affectionate when he wants to be , 
but if you want him to be and he does n't want to be , he 'll either scratch you or run away . 
but when he wants to be he 's really affectionate . 
he likes to lay next to you and have you scratch his head and snuggle up to you , 
but if he 's not in the mood , you 'd better stay away from him . 
but , dogs seem to be always in the mood . 
they 're always right there , and like you to pet them and loving . 
that 's true . 
i like the way they come up 
and they 'll put their head underneath your hand . 
and most dogs do that . 
they do . 
i do n't know any that really do n't . 
they know exactly how to get that attention , 
they sure do . 
they just come up , 
or they 'll rub their head against you . 
he 's outside during the day 
and then we get home at night we do bring him in . 
the backyard , it 's really big , too , for him to run in and stuff . 
that 's why we could n't understand why he would want to get out because he 's had all this room to run in , 
how did he get out ? 
he dug a hole under the fence . 
he did it a couple weeks ago , dug a hole , 
and we filled it back up put him back in there . 
he did it again 
so we chained him up 
but we really did n't want to keep him chained up because we feel like that 's just too restricting for him . 
so we put dirt in the hole and then put some chicken wire around it so that he could n't get out . 
he kind of ripped through the chicken wire . 
i do n't understand because it 's , like , he 's got a good home , 
we have two kids that just love him a lot , 
it 's like we ca n't understand why he kept wanting to get out , 
we just could n't , 
you know , that , animals are like that . 
they like to roam and investigate . and see what 's going on . 
i guess that 's probably true . 
i do n't think it 's anything we did . 
least i hope not . 
i know , 
he really does have a good home . 
i think that 's what really bothers me the most about it . 
how are your kids handling it ? 
i do n't know if it 's quite hit them . 
i have two girls , 
i do n't know , 
at first they seemed to be upset , 
but now it 's if he does n't come home , can we get another dog . 
that sounds like kids . 
it 's , wait a minute , . 
poor buddy . 
i said , he 's only been gone a day 
and you already want to replace him . 
what 's his name , 
buddy . 
buddy ? 
that was our cat 's name that died . 
is that right ? 
we named him buddy after buddy bell the ranger baseball player that used to be here . 
we were really into that when we got him going to the ranger games , 
and we named him buddy beaner for some reason . 
but , buddy after buddy bell , 
that 's funny . 
but , he was a good cat , too . 
we miss him a lot , 
and i feel real guilty because we had him for six years and one year i forgot to get him his leukemia booster and he got it . 
and i just felt so bad , 
it 's real contagious 
and the vet said it runs rampant in this area , 
i did n't know that . 
they get it if the other cat has it 
i had no idea . 
i did not know that . 
i just felt terrible . 
he was just getting real skinny . 
so i own a p c a t at my home . 
i could never justify owning a personal computer at home , 
that 's quite an expense to look for , 
who is this , 
what do you use yours at home for ? 
that 's actually a good question . 
my wife works out of our home . 
she has an office 
and in fact she sits in the office 
and she uses it to compose and print out letters . 
now . 
so that 's a very regular use of it that she has . 
and in addition to that i tinker around with it . 
i 'm a computer scientist . 
and so i write programs to do little things 
i 'm actually working on a data base at home just to keep track of things 
nothing special . 
and also i 'm interested in writing some programs that will kind of remind me of things remind me that wednesdays is trash day and the like . 
i 'm a electronics tech . 
years ago t i sent me to their computer school down in austin . 
so i learned to repair one 
but i never really learned to operate one . 
that 's a key thing . 
there 's really two issues to that that there 's so many software packages available today . that just require no programming . 
in other words when someone built that software packet they had to use the programming 
but if they were careful , they could make the use of it totally without understanding how the computer works . 
but i think you really hit the nail on the head . 
for the average person is exactly what he can use it for . 
whatever 
your issue is then there really , 
space is a handicap with me , 
i live in a motor home . 
i see 
and i 'm preparing for retirement . 
i see 
congratulations on that . 
and i 'm not to far from it 
another year and a half . 
actually one other thing i might ought to mention is that they are actually getting quite cheap . 
but just like the computers . 
remember how they started out running three , four hundred dollars . 
the calculators you mean . 
calculators , 
i beg your pardon . 
they sure do . 
i actually was thinking about upgrading mine very recently and kind of look at the whole spectrum . 
you can actually buy a whole brand new computer not a slow one or inadequate one but a pretty good one for six hundred dollars . 
you 're kidding . 
including a printer ? 
actually i was n't including a printer , 
but you can buy a printer now for a hundred dollars 
so make it seven hundred . 
a hundred ? 
a respectable one ? 
i do n't keep track of prices on them , 
but that does amaze me . 
the prices had plummeted , 
you can buy just the guts with the power supply , the box and the mother board of a type of computer called an eighty , eighty-eight , for about two hundred dollars . 
and then the keyboard is another fifty , 
the monitor with the card that drives is another hundred 
and then the disk drive is two fifty . 
that 's the deal is you 're not buying brands now , 
you 're buying these knock offs , 
probably the way to do it if you really wanted to buy one is there 's a magazine called computer shopper . 
it 's a big magazine , 
it 's twelve inches the narrow side and seventeen inches the tall side 
and it 's probably an inch thick a thousand pages . 
but the magazine is full of these computer mail-order houses 
and they 're all competing with each . 
so you just flip through there until you find a eighty , eighty-eight computer 
it 's the original p c . 
we call the t i , an i b m p c compatible . 
and you 'll find the monitors forty dollars and the card that drives the monitor that goes in the back of the board for twenty-five dollars which is amazing to me . 
and you mix and match 
and then you do it by mail-order . 
but there 's no real brands 
it 's probably a half a dozen companies around the world that are making those mother boards , the main computer , the circuit board . 
i see . 
how do you go about getting one of those catalogs ? 
they 're available in the b daltons , that type of thing . 
you 'll notice that although it 's a magazine it 's large . 
and like i said it 's about an inch thick . 
getting back to the p c -s , 
i 'll tell you , 
first of all i do n't like a machine that 's smarter than me . 
and secondly , i did learn this much about computers , 
they are pretty stupid because they add one and one up and come up with ten . 
in binary . 
that 's right . 
there 's great . 
anyway that 's one ever my favorite jokes . 
one and one equals ten . 
that 's great . 
course it 's kind of an inside joke . 
you can only tell that to somebody who understands binary . 
i understand , 
that 's great , 
that 's a good joke . 
so do you work with a computers at t i ? 
i did for years 
and then i was a scientist over in central research labs 
and just recently i 've changed my job to actually do some of the marketing . 
now i type that one , 
but i do n't use it anymore . 
i just recently started using one . in connection with my work . 
i keep track of an inventory here . 
and of course that is where a computer is very handy . 
i agree . 
and it 's my responsibility to see that equipment is sent off to be calibrated . 
i 'm with the q r a lab . qualification and evaluation 
i see 
that 's fascinating . 
so naturally our equipment has to be in top condition and is constantly calibrated , 
and they 're dated . 
so i have to keep up with them , 
and it 's very handy doing it on the computer . 
i just run a printout every week 
and it puts me right up-to-date what i have to do , what i have to ship , what i should be expecting to be returned . 
it is handy . 
and i must admit that up until i did start using one i had very little interest in computers . 
but they are amazing . 
they certainly are . 
so let 's see 
i guess we 've kind of covered it . 
i think we did . 
nice little conversation with you jack . 
mike you take care now . 
good day . 
good luck to you . 
thank you . 
same to you . 
i do n't know how much i know about this subject . 
i do n't know if i know anything or not , 
but i 've got some opinions on it . 
go ahead . 
those type of people that have the most opinions , ones that do n't know anything . 
i 've had teenagers 
and i now have grandchildren that are teenagers , 
and i do n't know that it might do them a little bit of good to see the world from a different perspective . 
i think this `` me '' generation has gone far too far . 
and the young people are overly impressed . 
and i think it would n't hurt them to step back from themselves just slightly and see things from a far more disadvantaged viewpoint . 
that 's true . 
i personally know nothing about the peace corps though . 
me either . 
i went to college and then started working and then got married 
and i 'm out on a limb here , 
some type of college volunteer work for teachers , that they are straight out of college 
and they do one year of volunteer work teaching in the lower income brackets of the united states . 
have you ever heard about that one ? 
i have n't , 
i have a twin sister 
and when they graduated she went to teach in a small town down in south texas 
and i know , that if you have college notes , if you teach in a lower income bracket where they do n't pay as much they cancel part of your college note or whatever . 
if it 's really a lower paying job where in a small town you do n't need as much as far as to live . 
and this is money that she 's borrowed to form her college education ? 
she only taught there one year 
but she got credits for it ? 
that 's very interesting . 
some group paid part of his college income 
it 's a nursing home or something like that . 
i think that 's a good way for people to maybe get people to come back to these small towns to work by helping people that normally might not be able to go to college and get the type of degree they want . 
i think that is an excellent program , 
i really do . 
i like that . 
and it 's beneficial to the small towns too because , they really have a disadvantage that we would n't understand because we 're in the metroplex . 
as far as getting doctors and all that stuff , 
if we had some really major health problem that required a specialist , we could find one 
it would n't be convenient , 
but we could find one . 
we would n't have to drive and spend the night someplace or something like that . 
so , i can see the advantage to that one . 
the peace corps itself is really dying out , is n't it ? 
i really do n't know that much about it , 
it 's still in existence . 
and do n't they go into other countries and stuff ? 
i want to believe they go into other countries and teach them how to do things like farm dig their own wells , set up , their schools . 
make them more self-supporting ? 
it 's not a program to teach them to use the american money , 
it 's a program to teach them to be more self-reliant . 
and 
you 're right , 
i think it 's a sixties program . 
that was his big deal . 
but it definitely would give a lot of the kids now that have everything given to them that they want to see what it 's like if you do n't have all the money and ca n't have what you want when you want it . 
, i think i 've singled out my grandchildren 
but actually they 're pretty good , along those lines as compared to what i have seen from other people 's children and grandchildren , 
mine are n't really that bad , 
but at the same time i think it would do them a world of good . 
i do n't know that you could require everyone to do it for a whole year , or two years or something like that , 
mandatory just like the draft . 
they could buy their way out . 
there would be loopholes just like there is in anything else . 
they 'd figure a way around that one in a heartbeat . 
but , , i 'm wondering if there 's another issue here , 
and maybe this is why this has died out . 
and this was n't the question 
can they go in there 
the kurdish community is a little bit extreme at this time , 
but i think bangladesh would have been a good example or some really desperate situation 
and it does n't do any good . 
i do n't know that it does . 
we 're losing certain , races of people . 
there are people now that are obsolete point and fact just like endangered species of animals , so there are quote tribes of people , that are endangered or obsolete . 
and i 'm just wondering if you 're fighting a natural process there of being winnowed out . 
there 's a german word for it that 's elegant , 
but i never can remember what it was , 
but they 're being winnowed because where they are they 're not adapted to their environment essentially . 
and one of the quick examples is the aborigines . 
sad little things . i felt sorry for them . because their society is n't there anymore , 
and their belief system and all the structures of their society are gone , essentially . 
and they 're just kind of more like a side show than anything else 
and that 's sad . 
but i do n't think there 's any way the peace corps could go in and rescue those people , 
and i do n't think you could have done it fifty or a hundred years ago either . 
so , i 'm wondering if the peace corps is , really an effective tool . 
down here with the peace corps we 're talking about all these people that are n't even in our own country when there 's enough people here that i think probably need help and , could be helped . 
good point . 
we 've got enough without a passport 
there 's plenty . 
i think we ought to worry about our own species . 
and maybe rather than just , require somebody to join the peace corps for a year maybe during college maybe have some kind of course where they 'd be required to do some kind of community service type work , and help people in that area or people in the united states . 
and i 've been out of school too long to answer this , 
but i wonder if there are n't some sociology courses . 
there probably are , 
people that do that are the people that are going to go into social work and stuff 
but i think that it would n't really be half bad for everybody not to do something and realize it 's everybody 's responsibility to help these people , 
i 'm not saying just give them money 
that 's the last thing you want , to do . 
i know that 's what my father-in-law was talking about , 
when you give these people money 
or , , what was it 
they were bringing up points asking as far as whether they need to give more money to these people , 
and that 's not really the answer because if they 're alcoholics they 'll just go out and spend , it on booze or something like that , 
that 's exactly it . 
they 're not going to take that money you give them and go try to figure out a way to dry out with it . 
come on , let 's be realistic , 
that 's just not realistic . 
or to find a job where they can learn how to support themselves , 
i guess we 're getting kind of off the subject , , here , 
we 're not . 
i think , that 's more realistic than making them go in the peace corps . 
i think that 's a lot more realistic . 
i think that we should be spending more time 
and again i do n't think the peace corps is as successful now simply because it does n't fit the circumstance anymore . 
we 've got plenty , 
in fact , we 've got far too many . 
you 're in flower mound ? 
flower mound , 
so , we 're a little farther removed from dallas and some of the areas where they probably have more of the homeless and that type of thing . 
that 's exactly what i was going to ask you . 
i guess i 've had to return something 
but i ca n't decide , 
mostly it 's been because i did n't like the color , 
or i 'm not sure whether i 've had to return that many things , 
i 'm having a problem right now with a computer that we 've just returned . 
are you ? 
for me it 's actually a pretty good topic . 
so , we 'll talk about that some . 
we could talk about that , 
and then we could talk a bit about just quality of products in general , if they 're better or worse if they last longer or something like that . 
let me tell you just a little bit about myself . 
for years i did all that shopping and whatnot , 
but for the last four or five years i 've had eye problem , 
and i 've had two cornea transplants . 
shopping is no fun anymore . 
i can imagine . 
i ca n't see good enough , 
and it 's hard to tell what i 'm doing , 
you ca n't read labels 
i just thought of something we have to return . 
there you go . 
it 'll come to us , 
are you ready ? 
laurie . 
tell me about your computer , laurie , 
i think that sounds fascinating . 
we bought a computer because my husband needed to use it to do some work for a consulting project , 
and we called up the company and asked them details on it . 
we bought not a name brand because the clones are so much cheaper . 
and we called up the company that somebody else we knew had dealt with , 
and they were very happy with the system , 
and they felt they 've gotten a good price . 
and we went in , 
we explained what we needed 
and 
we had to go across the george washington bridge to new jersey to meet these people . 
and so we went there , 
we told them about the stuff 
and the guy said that the computer would fit our needs . 
these things wo n't make any sense to you probably 
but he told us we need user positions to put our own equipment in the computer . 
and it 's called a user boards 
or slots is what it 's called . 
and he told us there 's four sixteen bit slots and two eight bit slots available for the user , 
and we can put full size cards in there . 
and so we said , great , 
we 'll buy it , 
and we put in our order . 
and a week later we went back and picked up the computer . 
and then we got it home and tried to put our own board in it 
and there 's only one slot we could put it in . 
and at this point we only have one board 
so it was n't so bad 
so we used it a bit , 
but we tried to figure out whether we could put three in because we really need to be able to put at least three in . 
the computer was supposed to have two . 
it has them 
but the problem is that you ca n't put the type of card that we need to put in it , in it . even though they told us in advance that you could , 
i see . 
they told us there would be no problem because the salesman just does n't really know . 
i see . 
in some ways it has more to do with the people who sold it . 
they probably did n't know what they were talking about . 
that 's completely it . 
the salesman did n't know . 
so , we went back in , 
and we struck an agreement with the people who said change the casing it comes in so that we could put in extra boards . 
so they did that . 
and we said are you sure this will work , 
we do n't want you to go through the work and then find out that this does n't really work anyway , and et cetera , 
and they were doing it at their own costs . 
and so we said , . 
and we went back 
and we talked to the mumblex person a second time and things like that , 
and then we get the computer home , 
my husband goes to pick it up last week 
and we could n't go get it sooner because i just had the baby , 
and life 's just a little bit complicated . 
and he goes and gets it , brings it home , 
first of all they 're missing components of it like cables 
so you ca n't really test it out . 
and then second thing , we still ca n't put the boards in , because they have other things blocking where we need to do it . 
and now we 're dealing with having to bring it back again 
and they say they can do something different and change some connectors 
and we hope so , 
but it 's a hassle . 
it really is . 
you know , it 's just this problem with sales people just not knowing what goes on . 
and so much time goes past before you finally get any kind of satisfaction . 
i think that 's the worst part . 
so actually some things are pretty good with that because i put it on a gold credit card 
and i just called the credit card company and explained to them the situation , 
and they said , you do n't have to pay for it yet . 
that 's an advantage , is n't it ? 
it really is . 
i think there 's a lot not to be said for credit 
but that 's one thing to be said for credit . how , it gets you some muscle where you need it . 
and i think that 's really important . 
because these guys if they give us a hard time we 're going to say , you , look , 
if you ca n't fix this to our satisfaction , we 're just returning the computer . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
and if we do that , i just tell the credit card company , do n't pay the charge , even though they 've already paid it . 
that 's right . 
but they 'll just undo the credit that they did to them . 
they will , 
that 's right . 
they will , 
they will put the kind of clout on them that you ca n't really do . 
hal bought me small , little jam box kind of thing 
i have my ninety-three year old mother living with us , 
and so she does n't remember anything 
but to keep her entertained , music and some of these things do help . 
the first time i turned it on i was recording , 
and the next thing i knew the tape was chewed up in the , thing . 
so after that then , you could n't get a tape to play at the right speed in that side . 
and then on the other side , when i loaned it to my daughter the other day to take it over to , videotaping they were doing , 
and she says it 's wrong too because the little thing pokes out too far , 
and so you ca n't get it to run the right way , either , 
what brand is it ? 
do you know ? 
so i wish i could tell you 
i really do n't know which brand it is . 
but i was wondering 
in our case where we knew we were buying a copy 
we were n't buying , on i b m p c 
i think this is maybe a name brand 
and i suspect that it 's probably , just a fluke . 
i have the papers and everything 
and we 're going to just take it back 
do you buy it at some major store ? 
i think it was a highlands or something like this . 
highlands , 
chain down there that i do n't know up here . 
do they have highlands up there ? 
do n't they ? 
this was a regular electronics store . 
so , i do n't think there will be too much problem 
but i guess i 'm not sure whether i think things are not made as well . 
i think a lot of things are not made as well . 
do n't you ? 
of course , it 's hard to think of an exact example , 
that 's good 
i like electronic stuff 
for one thing . i know their , work , 
cars i think are not made , as well as they could be . 
i think that 's right . 
they want people to replace it after , a couple of years . 
i 've known people who have had toyotas for years that have had almost no repair work to do on them . 
they may cost a little more , 
but they do n't have to take them to the shop every other day . 
i had a toyota 
and i loved it . 
my toyota did , really well . 
it did a good job , 
so , part of it is that we need to develop more of a pride in , the kinds of things we do so we make them better . 
and it kind of has to start from the top or from the bottom maybe and go clear up . 
i think part of the problem comes in sort of shoddy workmanship . 
the people just do n't care about , what they 're doing . 
nobody 's , really paying , 
attitude is just get me my dollar so i can go do what i want to do , 
give me my paycheck , so i can go home . 
what i 'm doing . 
i think that 's too bad . 
and it 's a shame too because when you get right down to it most things , if you do a good job , nobody can pay you enough . 
there is n't , any way to get paid enough . 
but if you do a good job , you feel enough satisfaction , 
so whatever you 're paid is enough . 
i do research 
and so i 'm used to sort of being underpaid for whatever work gets done . 
and you get satisfaction out of it . 
that 's right , 
but i think things come both from the individual side and also from the company side 
i think they underestimate how much value the satisfaction is . 
you 're the last one hired 
so you 'll be the first one fired , 
and we just want you to do your day 's work , 
and we do n't really care about you , as an individual . 
when you 've got that type of attitude on it , the people do n't care , about their work . 
it probably basically goes right back into the home though unfortunately . 
and so you need to really work hard at helping your kids to understand that there is value just in work for itself without any pay . 
little value just in whatever you do . 
that the value is in doing it well 
doing a good job of it . 
the question was about physical fitness and staying in shape and exercise . 
i do n't do it as much as i should . 
i try to walk . 
and last year i did it every day , 
but in ninety-one i 've kind of gone down hill . 
and so i 'm not doing it as much as i need to , 
but i can tell you when i do do it on a regular basis i feel so much better and so much healthier . 
i agree . 
but it 's just to get motivated to do it , 
and once i get started , i do it every night . 
and what happened about couple of weeks ago i started again . 
and i was walking , 
and it got kind of dark . 
and i was by myself , 
and there was this fellow in this truck that kept circling the block . 
so i kind of got frightened , 
and i kind of use that as an excuse . 
all i have to do , is start earlier , 
i have n't walked since , 
it 's always easy to find an excuse not to exercise . 
i know what you mean . 
it sure is . 
it sure is . 
how about you ? 
do you exercise on a regular basis ? 
i try to . 
i started at the beginning of this year , 
i decided i 'm going to start exercising again , 
i 'm going to be real good , 
and i went through the t i fitness center and registered for the aerobics classes there . 
and they run for two months at a time . 
and you do have to pay to take them . 
and i signed up for one that was three nights a week , an hour and a half , 
so that was four and a half hours a week . 
and it cost sixty dollars , 
and i thought , that 's not cheap , 
that 'll encourage me to always go since i spent that much money . 
and i had a friend of mine going , 
so i was real good , 
i only missed it about three times . 
and then march came around , 
and i signed up again , 
and i got caught up with a class i was taking at t i , 
and then i was having to work some real late hours to get with my work after i got out of class . 
and then i went to colorado springs the next week to do some training at the t i up there . 
and so that was two weeks i had missed , 
and i tell you what , 
i 've been terrible ever since then . 
it 's once you get out of that habit you do n't get back into it . 
because i teach school , 
and last year a bunch of teachers had an aerobics class . 
we went in together and hired a private instructor , 
and she came to our school twice a week . 
i would go faithfully , 
and then i missed once . 
then i went back again a couple times and missed another time , and then kept missing and never went back again . 
i think , you just have to stick with it . 
i think i 've been two maybe three times the month of april , 
and this session is about to run out . 
now i signed up for a different one now that 's only two nights a week because i am getting kind of into a real busy schedule as far as teaching a lot of training classes 
and some of them require me to go out of town , 
and , that just kind of throws my whole schedule off on doing that . 
lately there 's been nights that i could have gone 
and i 've found excuses things like i had the flu last week , 
but i 'm fine this week . 
i could have gone monday . 
i could have gone tonight , 
and i did n't . 
so , i 'm kind of finding excuses , 
and now it 's kind of this is the last week . 
i 'll just start fresh next week . 
but , i better do it . 
and i think another thing is that my friend that was taking with me the first two months was n't the second two months . 
she started taking tennis lessons , 
and so i have n't had that extra motivation , of us encouraging each other to go . 
that makes a difference when you have somebody to go with and to do the same thing . 
it 's misery loves company . 
i do n't really love exercise . 
the neighbor across the street , she belongs to president 's , 
and it 's not president 's any more . 
i do n't know what the name of it is anymore . 
but she loves it . 
it 's an automatic high for her . 
she just enjoys it so much . 
and i do n't . 
i 'm the same way . 
i feel good after i do it , 
but i hate it when i 'm doing it . 
i do n't enjoy it at all , 
and she just loves it . 
so . even when she does n't go to the health club , she runs . 
and , it 's a daily thing for her . 
and it 's so hard for me . 
i envy her , 
i wish i could be that way , 
i do too . 
and i have an older sister that loves running , too , 
and she runs all the time , 
but to me , it 's every minute 's agony , 
in fact , i do n't run . 
i hate to run . 
when i walk i 'll take along a radio or something 
and that helps pass the time . 
walking is kind of boring . 
i do have a few friends that live in my apartment complex in this neighborhood , 
and we used to try to get together , 
and i think now that the weather 's getting nicer we 're going to start doing it again and occasionally go walking . 
there 's a real nice residential area right behind our apartment complex . 
and it 's not as boring if you get several people 
that 's right . 
and you can kind of talk , 
and it makes it pass pretty quickly , 
and the aerobics is n't too boring . 
i kind of enjoy it when i 'm doing it . 
it 's a lot more fun than some other things i could do , i guess . 
but i do have to make myself go , 
and of course while i 'm doing it i feel pretty good , 
and after i get finished i feel great . 
it 's great afterwards , 
i can go in there , 
a friday afternoon when i 'm tired , it 's the end of the week and i just want to go home . 
and i 'll make myself go , 
and i 'll have headache and everything , 
and i get out , 
i do n't have a headache any more . 
i feel great , 
it 's amazing how much better i feel . 
and then just in general , i sleep a lot better 
that 's right . 
and i just feel much better . 
i 've been kind of dragging the last few weeks , 
and i know if i would just get around to exercising i 'd feel better . 
it does , 
it gives you energy . 
but my dragginess is my excuse for not exercising . 
i 'm too tired , 
or i have a headache 
i just got over the flu , 
and i 'm still kind of draggy 
so i better not go . 
it 's kind of a vicious circle is n't it ? 
it really is . 
i find , too , that i have more energy when i exercise , 
and it 's silly not to , 
but , i do n't know , 
it 's just a put off . 
i do n't know why i do n't do more , 
and i know that it 's good for my health . 
i know from everything that you read and you see on television now , exercise is so important to good health . 
so you 're not only doing something to keep yourself fit , but you 're probably prolonging your life . 
there 's no reason that we should n't do it , 
but i do n't know . 
it 's just hard to make yourself go . 
and i think one thing i do n't like about aerobics is that after i 'm finished it 's kind of late at night , 
and i 've been sweaty , 
i do n't really feel like going in the grocery store all sweaty or running errands . 
so it kind of kills the evening for doing errands . 
so i think a tuesday thursday might be a little bit better . 
of course , i feel like once i 've done it , if i 'm sweaty i might as well do an extra thirty minutes , because you 've already kind of shot your night . 
but so i 'm kind of glad they have a longer class on thursday now that i can just kill two nights , and , get a reasonable amount of workout in . 
does it cost the same for just two nights 
it 's less expensive . 
that 's good , too . 
this one was only forty-five dollars . 
but i 'm glad it 's not too totally cheap , because if it was too cheap i would talk myself out of going more , probably . 
since it 's more expensive , i think , you spent that much money , 
you 'd better go . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
do you have a facility right at where you work ? 
it 's right there , 
and they have a really nice facility at the t i . 
they 've got two different aerobics rooms , 
they have the mirrors . 
of course , sometimes you do n't like to see the mirrors on the wall 
you do n't like to see how you work . 
but , i guess , sometimes it kind of motivates you to really get going . 
and then they hire private instructors ? 
that 's great . 
and they have ceiling fans in the rooms , 
and it 's a pretty nice setup . 
and of course it 's real convenient , because it is right there at work . 
i think if i had to come home and then go somewhere , i 'd never make it . 
and just the fact that i can go straight from my desk over to the recreation center and do it helps a lot . 
i can see that would be easy . 
they make it as easy as they possibly can for you . 
do a lot of people take advantage of it ? 
quite a few do . 
they have probably fifteen to twenty different aerobics classes each session that are running , 
they have some during lunch hour that are shorter , 
and i guess guys can take advantage of that . 
for me , i would n't have time to do an hour of aerobics and then take a shower and get dressed again . 
but there 's a lot more guys that do that one . 
and they have them in the evenings , 
they even have some late night ones for people that work second shift and things like that . 
so they have big variety . 
they even have some water aerobics when the weather gets nice out in the pool . 
i 've never done that one before . 
you have a pool there , too ? 
how nice . 
they 've got an olympic pool , and basketball courts and sand volleyball . 
they 've got the full weight room and the locker rooms with a jacuzzi and sauna and the shower facilities , and hair dryers , and everything you 'd need just about . 
it is a real nice facility . 
it 's also got a full inside basketball court , 
and i think they 're working on building a jogging track and some other things . 
but it is very nice . 
that 's great . 
i just do n't take as much advantage of it as i should . 
i 'm just now finally starting to do the aerobics thing . 
does it cost money to exercise in the weight room or to go swimming . 
do you have to pay for that , too . 
you can get a fitness membership that allows you to use the facilities , 
and it 's about eight dollars a month . 
that 's not bad . 
not at all . 
pretty cheap . 
and then the aerobics cost extra even if you have the fitness membership , 
but , i think the aerobics classes are even pretty reasonably priced , from what i 've heard . 
i think so too , 
and people of all ages take advantage of the aerobics ? 
people of all ages take advantage of the aerobics ? 
in fact the t i-er 's families can come in on these things , 
the topic was , should the united states adopt the metric system , 
how should they do it ? 
why did n't it work last time ? 
and why did n't it work last time ? . 
i 'm all for it . 
i am too . 
and i guess , they tried soft conversion and hard conversion 
one of them is where you just take whatever 's already standard 
and you give it some sort of a weird metric number like six point two eight seven instead of six millimeter . 
direct conversion . 
i do n't know . 
i think they just ought to just go all the way on new products introduced or whatever start your packaging , go to liters instead of quarts , 
and people if they have to are going to learn to think that way . 
does n't just about everything now have both metric and english . 
they do , 
but things are generally packaged in the english sized packages . 
you buy a quart of milk , 
and it has the metric equivalent written on there , 
but it still a quart . 
but if they started putting it in liters , of oil , and liters of gasoline , people are going to learn to think in metric . 
as long as you can still buy a product in the english units , that 's how you 're going to think of it . 
i believe it was exxon 
it figures . 
we were living in lubbock at the time , 
they started marketing it in liters , 
and it was only twenty-nine and thirty cents a liter . 
so they could put this sign out front that said thirty-nine cents a liter . 
and nobody had any idea what a liter was , 
that 's the problem . 
when we finally , there 's about four liters in a gallon 
so you can figure out what you 're actually paying for it . 
i do n't know , 
when i was growing up , we were talking metric system in school . 
not at first , 
but by the time i was in fifth or sixth grade anyway . 
i would expect people with any kind of buying power under the age of thirty or so , to have some idea what it is . 
a liter 's about a quart . 
i think maybe there 's where the problem came in . 
it 's kind of like learning a language , 
when you learn one from the other , you always end up in this conversion thing all the time . 
course this country is n't a dictatorship , 
but it 's like somebody said , as of such and such a date anybody caught talking in the english , will be shot or something like that . 
thing is , it 's a global market place these days , 
something . 
i do n't remember what the other one is 
it 's just time for us to go over . 
i work for t i , 
we 're all around the world , 
you have to perform this conversion anyway . 
i do , too . 
with any drawing system you end up with things in parts of inches , half , fourth this sort of thing . 
mils and microns . 
and then you end up with a decimal , where you start getting into mils , and that sort of thing . 
and then some of them are done in purely metric . 
i remember that stink came around in the design area a few years back when it was all overseas designs were in microns 
and ours were in mils . 
somewhere down the line they went standardized , 
they went microns , 
but you end up with all kinds of problems with converting your designs . 
i can imagine . 
have you ever lived in a country where they use metric . 
i was with t i in el salvador for a while , 
and i had to get used to purely metric system down there , because they did n't understand anything else . 
if you start talking about miles , they 'd look at you like , what . 
so , i had a little bit of experience with it , 
and also i noticed in canada you drop a quarter , fifty cents , whatever , in a coke machine up there , 
and you get this funny looking coke , 
it 's in a can that 's taller but not as big around . 
about half a liter . 
it 's not a liter , 
it 's a half a liter or something like that . 
it 's a strange looking can . 
but my daughter in law 's from panama , 
and they have had americans down there for so long that they 're kind of into both systems , 
but she gets real confused on distances 
and temperature is the big thing the centigrade for which she says celsius . 
i would have more problem with the temperature , except that working in engineering , we do everything in centigrade , or celsius . 
i had kind of gotten used to centigrade temperature , 
if it 's between zero and ten , it 's cold , 
and if it 's ten and twenty it 's not too bad , 
if it 's between twenty and thirty it 's pretty warm , 
it 's getting warm . 
if it 's more than thirty it 's just hotter than all get out . 
but , . the big problem is not having the resolution between a hundred , or what , thirty , zero thirty four degrees , whatever that is . 
you do n't get all the little differences 
the differences between seventy and seventy-two or seventy-five degrees is n't much , 
but the difference thirty and thirty-five degrees is , quite a bit . 
is about twice as much , what it works out to . 
five . 
one point eight times as many points . 
something like that . 
so . i think as long as people have a choice , they 're going to stick with the american way . 
and until we have to learn to think that way , we wo n't . 
though we call it the english system , 
but i 'm not sure what they do in england now . 
they 're on metric , are n't they ? 
for the most part , i think so . 
we run into some problems once , 
i remember , they 've got a nut and bolts system called wentworth . 
and this thing was even different than s a e standards and stuff . 
my dad bought one of these little nash metropolitans here quite a few years back , 
and the thing had a austin heeley type engine , 
it was austin motors engine and running gear . 
and the body was built by nash , 
that was even before american motors , 
but nash , essentially , in the u s somewhere . 
and that thing had the darndest combination of metric and wentworth and s a e . 
he ended up with about three sets of tools in order to work on that fool thing . 
he just get one more . 
because i think the wentworth and the s a e bolt sizes were the same , 
but the threads were different , 
and it was a total mess . 
that would be a mess . 
and on my chevy van that 's a couple of years old . 
part of it 's built in canada . 
matter of fact , the thing is , i always say it 's built off shore because it was assembled in canada . 
the only thing that was in it built in the u s was the differential , 
and it was built in buffalo , new york . 
but it 's got the hardest combination of metric 
and , most of the body parts seem to be metric , 
and most of the engine parts seem to be s a e , 
so . it 's just crazy . 
it just gets bad , 
you got to have one , and not mix them up . 
because you 're never going to get to one system if you still got a mix . 
and of course , here that would involve changing road signs all across the country , 
miles per hour to kilometers per hour , and the whole nine yards . 
kind of hard to do gradually . 
i thought maybe they would convert to metric back when they went to the fifty-five mile an hour speed limit , because fifty-six or fifty-seven 's a hundred kilometers , 
and you know 
you 'd have people doing a hundred miles an hour . 
hundreds on the sign looks lot better than fifty five , 
you 'd have people going a hundred miles an hour . 
and , so . i do n't know , 
and the other thing , too , is between here and el paso 's five hundred miles , 
but it 's almost eight hundred kilometers . 
that sure seems like a long way . 
but they 'd seem to be ticking off faster , too . 
i guess that 's it . 
every road sign you come to , is i do n't know it . 
they converted all the road signs to fifty-five miles an hour , 
they could 've converted it to metric just about as easy . 
you still got cars on the road that do n't have both . 
not all that common . 
now cars , they have both . 
sooner or later they 'll start putting the miles on the inside and the kilometers in big numbers so people start thinking that way . 
i know the only other place that i was ever at where they really had it mixed was in panama , where a lot of the road signs and everything are in miles per hour 
and some are in kilometers . 
and you got to know where you are because anything that was the old canal zone is going to be miles per hour , 
start . 
what kind of recycling programs do you have in rowlett ? 
right now they 've got kind of a central location off of the main highway , 
and they 've got some great big bins there for newspaper plastic three bins for glass , white , green , and whatever other combination there is . 
and i think they 've got some kind of container for aluminum . 
plano 's doing real good on that . 
they start off putting out great big huge garbage cans . which we 're supposed to put all our week 's garbage into it , 
and of course it does n't fit right now . 
but now we start in may , breaking it down , 
and they 're picking it all up . 
and we have to separate our papers , and our glass , 
and then they have one day for everything you picked up from your yard , 
and we put that in disposable bags , 
and they pick that up on monday . 
so it 's really great . 
i 'm completely for it , 
i think it 's marvelous . 
that 's good . 
rowlett had sent out a survey , not too long ago in terms in how many people were interested in having a pick up on the days they do trash or something like that . 
and apparently a lot of people responded to it favorably , because they 're going to do it . 
i do n't know how soon they 're going to do it , or how organized it 's going to be , 
but they 're supposed to initiate that sometime in the next couple of months . 
where you work , do they also have aluminum cans pickups and things like that ? 
i 've never noticed that . 
we do n't have a whole lot , because we 're in a hospital setting , 
so most of the things we have are through our cafeteria . 
down in the cafeteria do they have any place where you can put your pop cans , and things like that ? 
there 's only one pop machine 
and it 's not accessible to the cafeteria now , 
so mainly what they serve in there is juice and coffee and tea . 
so you do n't have much choice there . 
not really . 
i work at j c penny 
they have a sign up that says for one full week you bring in your old wire hangers 
and they 're going to recycle them . 
so it 's getting people . 
and then the week before that , they said go through your cupboards and any food that is still good , bring it in 
and they brought it down to the shelters . 
and , they have three that i know of for cans for people have pop , 
and they put them right near where they have the time cards . 
and it works great . 
and they have one in the room where the snack machines are too . 
that 's good . 
so they 're really going at it , 
i guess rowlett 's done a lot for the size town it is . 
and i think they 're trying to make some changes . 
i noticed at the library or someplace this past month , month and a half ago , they were having a speaker talk about doing lawn work and , how important it is to cut your lawn without a bag . just to kind of mulch it , rather than bag it up , because of all the grass that 's being bagged and being hauled away by the garbage trucks and stuff , 
and it 's a lot more ecological to just mow the grass and let it work its way back into the soil . 
did you watch the program the other night on save america ? 
i saw part of that . 
it was good . 
the only thing i thought that i have n't been trying , is when i go to take a shower , to save the water , and to put it on my plants . which i had never thought about before . 
i started years ago , i guess , 
not years ago , 
but 
i would say five years ago , 
turning off my water faucet , in the sink when i brush my teeth . 
but i did n't realize that was the biggest waste of water . 
that was surprising to me . 
i missed that question , totally really bad . 
i 'm trying to think , 
i did n't miss too many , 
i ca n't remember what my score was , 
but i did exceeding well . 
i was surprised . 
but i did n't realize that our garbage is n't being decomposed . 
that was a shocker to me . 
there are a lot of things that are n't , 
that 's one of the things i wonder about , 
one of the questions was , do you think more should be done , or something else . 
i wonder about some of the products that they do n't take , like some of the plastics and things that they do n't take . why they could n't do more recycling with those . 
i was in bizmart the other day , 
and , what i do n't understand is there is recycled paper in there , 
and it cost more than regular paper . 
and it was only forty cents more fifty cents more , 
but , it upset me to realize that they 're going through the expense of recycling , 
but people are n't buying it , 
so the cost of it is higher . 
i seen a lot of adds recently for organic fertilizers and lawn additives and that type of thing , 
but the cost is double or sometimes triple , the regular fertilizers and things you buy . 
and , for the environment there 's a good reason to do it , 
but the cost is kind of prohibitive . 
that 's recycling , 
companies that do at least go into it , i 'd like to see . 
so that people would use this stuff over again . 
it 's a good idea . 
it 's like when he was saying which one was recyclable , which was reusable , 
and the recycle ones are better to use , 
but lots of times you do n't even see the signs on the bottles . 
and if we 're going to really do something , they ought to put that stuff out bigger for people to see it . 
i had to put my bifocals on to see it . 
that 's hard when you 're in a grocery store and you 're short anyway . 
you have to get enough nerve to ask somebody to take something off the top shelf . 
you have n't got enough nerve to say put it back , 
it 's not recyclable . 
i 'd heard something stranger , 
i think it 's in canada they 're using recyclable milk jugs , plastic milk jugs , as a reinforcement for roads . for road repairs . 
and apparently they do n't break down very easily , 
and , they do n't expand or contract when the weather changes , 
and this is kind of an unusual use for that type of thing . 
i know , 
it was toilets . 
the old ones ? 
smashing them up , because that stuff there is great in road work . 
and i thought , that 's good . 
and then i saw recycling , 
hoses were being used , 
and soaker hoses , made out of old tires . 
what else , 
something else was made out of old tires , 
i was trying to remember what it was . 
i ca n't think of it now . 
but i was trying to get my kids to see different things that we could come up with for recycling purposes . 
and just anything , to recycle rather than keep throwing it away , 
but my biggest problem is , i take the bags out of the store , buy the bags to bring the back , 
and then i forget to bring them in the store . 
i 'm forever going back out to my car to pick up my bags to bring them and take my garbage back out . 
i wish they 'd really push this recycling bit , because i really did n't realize how much stuff i actually throw away . 
i think the more people are aware of it , the more they 'll do . 
i think that 's just the biggest problem is keeping it in front of the public so they understand how serious the problem is , and how important it is to do that . 
you know what i 'd like to see a little more . 
i do n't have any little tiny kids , 
but if they get the little tiny kids saving it now , in five years , when they get bigger , it 'll work a little bit more , too . 
we 've all got to do it right now . 
i really amazed to find out that eighty per cent are filled now , in garbage fills . 
in five years we 're supposed to be at max . 
i do n't think i can keep my own garbage . 
i might not have that much , 
do you live in plano or work in plano , or both ? 
both . 
both , 
are you a t i -er ? 
are you at work right now ? 
so am i . 
in which building ? 
are you summit 
or are you spring creek ? 
i 'm spring creek . 
this is fun . 
what building are you in ? 
i 'm building one . 
i 'm building two . 
at least we found something different . 
i 've never had a call , 
not like that . 
neither have i . 
is n't that funny ? 
i got a woman in new jersey the last time i called , i think . 
that 's funny . 
that is funny . 
so how 's the weather in building two ? 
the weather in building two is cold 
it 's been cold . 
it 's been cold in the building . 
outside the building it 's not bad . 
typical t i , 
listen 
i got me doing it . 
typical texas spring . 
are you a native to texas ? 
i 'm a transplant . 
from california . 
so what do you think of the texas weather ? 
not as nice as california . 
how long have you been here ? 
five years now . 
i 've been here pretty long . 
you know about august then . 
i 've been through five of those . 
there 's no surprises left . 
if they 're going to go out of state for vacation that 's the time to go . 
good idea . 
real good idea . 
we went up to wyoming this last summer during that time . 
and it was eighty degrees up there . 
it was beautiful . 
nice to get out of texas for a while . 
we went to alaska . 
that 's even farther away . 
that is really nice . 
it is so cool , you wear a jacket . 
even in the summer time . 
or keep one handy . because it rains a lot in alaska . 
is that right ? 
they call it their liquid gold . 
you get sunshine , 
and it 's lovely , 
and then it rains just enough to keep everything nice and moist and very green . and blooming . 
green . 
it 's pretty . 
texas is n't bad . 
not in the spring . 
i have to think every year to try to remember what 's it supposed to . 
spring is nice . 
because march we usually get a lot of rain , in march . 
it 'll seem . 
march we typically get a lot of rain , 
and we 've had this many inches , 
and we 're right on target , 
and just seem like we were getting a lot of rain in march , 
we always do though . 
it 's hard to remember twelve months ago what it was like . 
i just wish it would n't come all at once . 
that 's right , 
and then we get all that heat . 
and . . 
when it rains , it rains . 
in california you get these nice , lovely rains nothing really like downpours like you have here . 
the other day we had some hail , the biggest hail i 've ever seen in texas . 
i live in garland . 
you got into that bad stuff . 
we got hail the size of marbles . 
just so noisy hitting the house and the glass on the windows . 
it did n't break anything , 
but we went out there afterwards 
and there 's ice balls the size of marbles all over our lawn . 
is n't that strange . 
i know , 
you pick them up , 
and they 're perfectly round . 
and i go , how did they form so perfect like that . 
i think that 's one of the strange , strange things , 
and you very seldom see it though . 
i 've seen hail , 
but usually the size of tiny , tiny pebbles . 
really small . 
but this was really large . 
so it 's a drop of water that had come through quite a few rain clouds apparently . 
is that correct ? 
i do n't know how hail is formed to tell you the truth . 
it 's not on the ground , 
but in the clouds it is . 
must be . 
i guess , 
and then , i think all that falling would warm it up and melt it , 
but maybe that 's what rounds it . 
but , tumbling . 
i was dumb . 
i was in florida for a week on business . 
and i had called back to the house . 
i stayed the weekend , 
and i called back to the house . 
my housekeeper was baby-sitting my cats and dogs , said something to the effect of , now we 've made the national news , do n't get upset , and do n't worry , 
it 's in garland where all the bad weather is . 
i said , okay 
and i watched the news , 
and i thought , that 's garland , 
that 's not plano , 
i do n't have anything to worry about . 
i was on the plane heading back to dallas before it dawned on me , 
stupid , you own property in garland . 
felt so dumb . 
finally i got home and found out my property was okay . 
there was no problem with it . 
but i guess you just tend to think of where your house is and nothing else . 
and close to that , what 's called duck creek that runs through part of garland , that 's the part that always seems to get hardest hit when there 's the hard rain . 
i see . 
the creek overflows 
and a lot of houses around that creek seem to get flooded 
the streets and stuff around that area , get a lot of flooding . 
that house , that i bought is close to a firewheel golf course . 
just going to be blocks off of that new highway one ninety that 's going through . 
that 's where i live , close to that . 
not quite , 
i do n't live in that firewheel division . 
but i live close by there in far north garland . 
is that a nice area ? 
it 's getting built up with more new shopping centers and things , 
it 's a fairly new area . 
and they 're supposed to be building a mall somewhere close by , by ninety-three or ninety-four or something , 
a brand new mall not too far away from that area , 
the house that i bought was really , really nice . 
it 'd be nice . 
in the firewheel estates there , whatever . 
really , really nice home , very pretty . . 
but you 're not living there right now . 
i 'm going to lease it . 
i see . 
it 's investment property . 
i see . 
but it 's a very nice place . 
i would cheerfully live there . 
of course it 's not my home , 
and i 've lived in my home almost ten years , 
and i 've got everything just exactly like i want it . 
but if i were to live some place else , it certainly meets my standards . 
it 's a nice house . 
that 's a nice area . 
is it on the golf course ? 
it 's not , 
it 's off the golf course , 
and i 'll be honest with you , 
i 'm going to have to get a map to figure out exactly where is the golf course versus where my house is . 
is that right . 
but it 's in the estates that adjoin it . 
that 's a nice area . 
it is . 
that really is a nice area . 
when they get that highway finished , you can hop on that and get anywhere you need to go fairly quick . 
that one ninety is just going to be the outermost loop around . 
another belt line , just farther out . 
just continue to do that . 
where are you from in california ? 
southern california . 
san diego ? 
i 've lived in san diego for six years when i was younger , and l a area , 
and my parents live in anaheim right now . 
lived up north of los angeles in thousand oaks area , where the cowboys have their training camp , 
or used to anyway . 
i 've been through all of that . 
there is an area beyond thousand oaks , north of los angeles that is really an eerie , strange looking area with boulders , 
they 're not really hills , 
they 're more like just huge boulders with very little vegetation . 
i 'm not familiar with what , 
is it along the coast or inland . 
. it may be a little bit more inland . 
that is one of the strangest areas i have ever seen . 
i had to go up to t i on business a couple years ago 
out there , 
and we went up that coastline , 
and i was just amazed how unusual that looks . 
hang on just a second , 
i 've got a los angeles map . 
they have some pretty nice weather out there in los angeles . 
valley . 
valley . 
i know where that is . 
beyond thousand oaks . 
i know where valley is , 
i 've been out there before , 
you do n't think that 's strange looking . 
i did n't notice anything strange about it . 
maybe i 'm used to texas . 
the elevation is extremely high . 
it 's got curving roads on it , 
it 's just a strange landscape , 
there 's very little vegetation . 
i do n't remember seeing that part of it . 
i know valley , 
it 's just a suburb of l a . 
and they 've built some new highways out to that area , and things , lately . 
people can get in and out of l a easier . 
maybe it 's a place i went to , 
it was far extreme , 
thought we 'd never find the place . 
it was interesting . because we went out the ventura highway to thousand oaks and on up through that way . 
sounds interesting . 
i know exactly that area . 
it 's a nice area out there . 
i love thousand oaks . 
texas , i do n't know , 
you just have less a variety , i guess . 
i do n't think it 's quite as green . 
it 's green with all the trees and things out here 
it 's green sometime . 
i do n't know . 
it does n't stay green 
i know this sounds like a texas story , 
all honesty , you have n't seen the hottest of summers if you 've only been here five years . 
we have n't had a really bad one , 
i missed that one of eighty or eighty-two or eighty-one that had the heat wave . 
it may be eighty-two , because we bought our house in eighty-one 
and we built a pool in eighty-two , 
jack , what type of music do you like ? 
i like classical , and sort of popular rock type music . 
i enjoy classical too . 
i never really had listened to it till i got married , 
and my wife enjoys it . 
so i had never listened to it till then , 
but now i listen to it whenever she does . 
and even every once in a while i put it on myself . 
i used to play the piano , 
those are really nice . 
i like those . 
though i could n't tell you anything about them other than when my wife says , this is bach . 
i do n't know all that much myself , 
i just know , when i hear it that i like it . 
what you like . 
how about popular music ? 
whatsever 's on the radio is usually okay with me , 
but sometimes i have a hard time hearing the words clearly if i 'm in the car and there 's noise and stuff 
it 's mostly just the tunes . 
i 'm pretty much the same way . 
people always say , ! the meanings of those words . 
i know . 
i just thought they just all sort of rhymed . 
i know , 
i know . 
about the only thing i can remember after the song is over is the refrain . 
whenever they say it two or three times . 
i 'm the same way . 
it 's funny depending on where you live , 
i commute back and forth between baltimore and a rural town called salisbury , which is two and a half hours away , 
and the difference in the radio with popular music , is totally different , 
because baltimore will play more what might be considered a little bit more progressive ? 
and as soon as you go down to salisbury , this town that 's two and a half hours away in the suburbs or whatever in real rural maryland , it turns into basically classic rock . 
oldies or what ? 
mostly oldies . 
when the doors movie came out doors was really on the radio there where you 'd hear one or two of their more famous songs , maybe top forty in baltimore , 
but in salisbury , that 's all you would hear was , this is the doors ! . 
so , it was sort of a funny thing . 
there 's a big variation among the country , 
i 'm starting to realize that . 
i never really thought about that much , 
but there is . 
i lived in pittsburgh before baltimore , 
and i never really noticed the difference when i moved to this area ? 
i really did n't notice at all . 
it just seemed the same . 
but when i went more rural it really changed . 
chicago has a lot of good stations , 
does it ? 
you do n't have to wait till the hour mark . 
it 's sort of constant . 
you just turn there , 
and you get the latest news and everything . 
it 's sort of like c n n , 
you turn on your t v 
and it 's on . 
that would really be beneficial . 
so . 
because you never hear the news basically on the radio . 
i never get it . 
and if you do n't read the paper , you sort of fall behind if you 're in , the car all the time . 
that 's pretty good . 
i like to listen to tapes of music or , stuff on a long trip . 
and now you can even get books on tape . 
on fact my grandmother does that a lot , because she 's blind , 
or she 's losing her sight or whatever . 
i can imagine if you 're driving cross country listening to a story . 
lot of the classics are really , on tape . 
so , that 's a lot of fun 
that would be good . 
we strayed a lot from music . 
i guess so . 
but i guess music comes into that whole aspect of listening . so as long you 're listening . 
but if you do have to go , i guess we can just cut off . 
jack , it was nice to talk to you . 
nice talking to you , tom . 
and good luck , 
and i hope you get some more calls and make some more calls . 
thank you . 
jay , where do you live in texas ? 
i live in dallas , 
in dallas . 
right at the intersection of the busiest highway in the state . and it goes east and west , and a north south tollway . 
what 's that , 
the i thirty and central express ? 
it 's called six thirty-five the highway . 
it 's the looper that goes around the city 
and then the tollway is called the dallas north tollway . 
just moved here about a month ago after twenty-one years , two miles to the east . 
is that right ? 
how about that ? 
so , it 's a very different house from the typical dallas house . 
it 's a new home ? 
it 's about eight years old , 
about eight years . 
it 's a duplex type thing . very modern and very open and light . 
so it 's different than the long texas ramblers . 
we live in a brick story and a half , 
what 's your house like ? 
cape cod style , i guess you 'd call it . 
and have a big sun room on the back of it . 
so it 's got a lot of openness and light , also ? 
it does n't ? 
it does n't have . 
that 's what my wife really wanted 
with openness and light ? 
i understand that , 
i would love that too . 
our last house was n't too bad , 
but it was just too traditional , 
this is very traditional . 
the next time probably a year and a half from now , we 're going to try to build . 
so make one really contemporary , and very modern and very open and very light . 
do you have children at home ? 
i have three in college . 
three ? 
they usually , get back at least two of them for the summer , 
you still need space , plenty of space . 
still need a little bit of space . 
we have a lot less than we had recently . 
already cut back . 
how big is your place ? 
it 's about twenty-five hundred square feet , i guess . 
that 's good size . 
it has one wing built on that 's a kitchen family room , and then the big room on the back . 
we had four bedrooms , two and a half baths in the place we just left . 
so now we 're down to , two and two . 
two and two , 
so it wo n't be terribly wonderful when the kids are home , 
but it wo n't be that long , because we . 
i was just reading an article that there were nineteen thousand properties available in texas for sale by the resolution trust corporation ? 
repossessed . 
and if you can find one in the right area you can really pick up a steal . 
i guess so . 
we really did n't go that route and did n't look . 
and the housing market probably still going to even go lower . 
there are many houses for sale just by the regular route . 
that 's discouraging if you own property . 
and we just decided sell . 
and we got a pretty good price for what we had . 
not as good as it would have been three or four years ago . 
few years . 
but that was just the timing . 
our daughter and son-in-law moved back up here about a year and a half ago , and had their house on the market down there , 
and they never did sell it . 
so they stayed six months , 
and she got her job back , 
and he got a job down there . 
they 're not moving very well . 
for sure . 
and that 's a good example of it . 
they live in rowlett . 
i know where that is . 
we 've been here for twenty-five years . 
have you ? 
i 'm from missouri , 
and my wife 's from kansas , 
so i teach at a college here . 
so it 's sort of home now . 
what college are you teaching at ? 
it 's called brookhaven college . 
it 's one of the community colleges . 
and it 's just about two miles to the west of where i 'm living . 
so it 's very nice , very convenient . 
the only one i know is richardson . 
richland college it serves richardson and garland . 
garland , 
and that 's about nine miles to the east of here . 
so it 's good to hear from you . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
and i hope we did them some good on their little computer dealy . 
i hope so . 
and have a good life , the rest of it . 
thank you , 
same to you . 
i read a lot , 
i tend to read only out of a couple groups . 
and i 'm a big baseball fan , 
so i tend to read a lot of the baseball books 
i 'm a big baseball fan too . 
and i read a lot of science fiction . 
i teach school , 
and so during the school year , i just do n't have time to read . 
and i would love to be able to read more because i enjoy it so much . 
but with correcting papers and two kids of my own , i just do n't have time . 
but in the summer , i try to read a lot . 
and , of course , being a woman , i like romance novels and stuff like that a whole lot . 
i really enjoy that because it 's kind of a getaway type thing . 
so i read a lot of that . 
but i also love sports . 
but i do read sports illustrated during the year because my son gets that . 
and but i do n't read a lot of nonfiction , 
and i really should because there 's so many self-improvement books out right now that would benefit me greatly , 
i do n't really , 
i probably should . 
i do n't really read the self-improvement books or things like that . 
i 'll get books on history and stuff like that that look interesting . 
and of course , i do n't ever get around to reading them . 
i belong to quality paperback book club . 
do you ? 
and i 'll get stuff out of that . 
i got battle cry of freedom a couple of years ago . 
and i started reading , and got about sixty pages into it 
and it 's eight hundred pages . 
and it was i want to read something else for a while . 
some of those books are real tough to get into , 
but after you get into them , they 're really good . 
but it 's just tough to get through that first two hundred pages or so . 
battle cry of freedom starts off in the eighteen forties . 
it 's okay , 
and i realize these things . 
these things take awhile to move up , 
but it 's hard sometimes . 
it 's right , 
that 's right . 
and you do n't read a lot of fiction , you said . 
i read a lot of science fiction . 
do you ? 
when i find an author i really like , i try to read everything they write . because you get used to their style and you really enjoy it . 
i do the same thing . 
there 's one science fiction writer named allen dean foster . 
i 've heard of him . 
i must have fifty or sixty books by him . 
is that right ? 
i have almost everything he 's ever done . 
and i know that when i get his book i 'm usually going to enjoy it . 
it 's fun to do that . 
is n't it amazing that somebody can write that many books about science fiction ? 
i think that 's unbelievable . 
he does a lot of movie adaptations and things like that . 
does he really ? 
and his adaptations are usually really good . 
it was out in the stores as being by george lucas . 
but it turns out that foster actually ghost wrote it for him . 
is that right ? 
when i read it , i should have realized that because it had foster 's style written all over it . 
is that right ? 
i 've never read anything of his , 
but i 've heard about him . 
does he get some royalties from that , hopefully ? 
i 'm sure he does . 
i would think he would . 
i 'd hope so . 
i mean he 's doing all right , probably . 
i 'm sure he is , 
i 'm sure he is . 
but sometimes the more you get the more you want too , 
that 's true . 
you 're a baseball fan , 
you 're aware of that kind of thing . 
in fact , i 'm a sports fan , period . 
that 's why i like to read sports illustrated so much 
because there 's everything in it . 
i had a subscription to that last year , 
but i 'm mostly a baseball fan . 
the other stuff is interesting 
but i was mostly interested in the baseball stuff . 
you 're probably a baltimore fan an oriole fan ? 
actually i 'm a red sox fan more than anything . 
is that right ? 
boston ? 
that 's good too . 
but i do like the orioles also . 
i 'm sure you do . 
i 'm a ranger fan simply because i live here . 
i 'm not from here . 
i 'm originally from ohio , 
so i 've always followed the tigers . because i was born and raised in toledo . 
toledo . 
i was in toledo last summer . 
went to a mud hens double header . 
i love the mud hens . 
they 're great . 
i love the name 
and , there was a really big article on the mud hens in sports illustrated last year . 
i saved that issue , actually . 
did you ? 
that 's when i had the subscription . 
it was a lot of fun . 
i really enjoy that team . 
we used to go there all the time . 
i used to live in iowa too , 
and they have the iowa oaks . 
and we used to go to their games all the time . 
they do n't exist anymore , 
i do n't , think . 
i know they do n't . 
at least not by that name . 
there 's the iowa cubs , 
but i do n't know if they play , in the same location . 
i 've been here for twelve years now , 
and i have n't been back to des moines in a long time . 
but we used to always go to their games , 
and it was kind of fun . 
it 's almost more fun than going to a major league game . 
i do n't know , 
i just really enjoy the , farm teams . 
minor league , baseball is a lot more fun than , major league baseball . 
it is . 
it 's not quite so serious . 
and it 's a lot cheaper . 
that 's for sure , 
that 's , for sure . 
there 's a city just west of baltimore , called frederick . 
it 's about forty miles west . 
is that right ? 
and they have a minor league team . 
and i go out there almost as much as the orioles 
is that right ? 
it 's just a lot of fun . 
it 's free parking 
and four bucks now to get in . 
and the hot dogs are a dollar 
and it 's just great . 
how much is an oriole game ? 
oriole game ? 
if you park in the lot across the street from the stadium , it 's four bucks . 
the cheapest ticket you can normally get is six fifty to seven fifty . 
it 's higher than the rangers . 
and hot dogs start at a dollar fifty . 
the food here is outrageous . 
it used to be three dollars . 
but i think it 's gone up to four dollars this year . 
that 's nice . 
but it 's in the bleachers , way out in center field , 
but it 's still nice . 
you still can see well . 
and we usually sit there unless somebody gives us tickets box seats or something , 
then we usually sit out there . 
how much are the box seats there ? 
do you know offhand ? 
box seats run from eight dollars to twelve dollars . 
that 's a little steeper . 
i think the most expensive seats in memorial are eleven bucks . 
but we 're getting a new stadium next year 
so it 'll go up . 
it 'll go up . 
it 's something we 're really irritated about around here . or some people are really irritated about . 
they built the new stadium downtown . 
and they 're saying how there 's going to be a lot more parking for the stadium . 
but i park for free up at memorial stadium because i know where i can do it for free . 
and i 'm not going to be able to do that downtown . 
that 's a bummer . 
it 's outrageous to go to the cowboy game . 
it 's high too . 
so baseball 's cheap , compared to other games . 
were n't you guys , supposed to get a stadium in downtown dallas ? 
that did n't go over . 
it did n't , go through . 
george bush , who 's the main owner of the rangers , decided that they 'd stay in arlington . 
so arlington 's going to build a stadium , a bigger one . 
so they 're going to stay there . which is fine , because arlington 's got a lot of things to offer . 
and that was their main money making deal for the city . 
and it would have devastated them if they would have taken it away . 
there 's six flags right by the stadium , 
there 's a wet 'n wild 
all the tourists come there . 
it would have been devastated , 
they would have collapsed . 
so i 'm kind of glad they 're staying there . because it 's right in the middle of fort worth-dallas , 
and , 
that 's what i 'd always heard , 
i like it there . 
and i think dallas has enough to offer that they do n't have to hog everything . 
so , i 'm glad that they 're staying in arlington . 
and it takes us maybe thirty-five to forty minutes to get there from plano , which is not too bad at all . 
that 's about what it takes me to get to memorial . 
it actually . 
and it takes me almost the same amount of time to go to frederick , as it does to go to the ballpark in baltimore . because to go out to frederick , i just jump on the interstate 
is that right ? 
because i live just south of the interstate . 
hop on the interstate , 
and the stadium 's right off the interstate . 
so , it 's i drive west 
and i 'm there . 
and and then to go into baltimore it 's fewer miles , 
but i 've got to go , stop and go traffic and everything . 
i guess you read sports illustrated 
but you do n't read many sports books 
not really . 
my son does , 
i have a son that just turned sixteen , 
and he reads everything he get his hands on . 
he 's reading a dick vitelle book right now because he 's a real big dick vitelle fan . 
he 's a basketball fan because he plays for the high school he goes to 
and just loves dick vitelle , which not many people do . 
but he 's reading it , 
and he says , he 's so interesting , mom . 
you just ca n't believe all the things he 's done . 
and he 's really enjoying that . 
and he said , mom , you need to read it after i get finished . 
so maybe i will . 
i understand there was a really good basketball book called a season on the brink . 
i never heard that one . 
i 'm not sure . 
i do n't know . 
i 'm trying to think of the guy 's name . 
it was john feinstein or something like that wrote it . 
i just heard about it the other night . 
and they mentioned that one . 
i 'll have to tell my son about that . 
i 'm sure he 'd like it . 
that would be good . 
even when i do n't like the sport so much , i get interested in the history of sports franchises , 
what are your first comments on that subject ? 
my first comments on the budget . 
what would be the first thing you 'd cut ? 
defense ? 
surprisingly . 
i would cut the prison systems and let them self-support . 
mean private enterprise ? 
have private enterprise do it ? 
you mean the prisons ? 
they 're already talking about it . 
they 're talking about having it as a business . so , the government does n't have to deal with it . 
i had n't heard that . 
but 
because i think it 's all , either state or federally funded 
but there 's not enough room in these prisons and that , to continue funding it . 
they think they need to , maybe have private enterprise come in . 
the other way i 'm thinking about is they should be self-supporting , like the prisoners make license plates or farm or . anything to where they can be self-supporting within themselves . 
in other words , they 're in there for a purpose , 
put them to work rather than sitting there . 
it 's the same thing the whole criminal , but the whole police department of the united states . 
i feel the same way . 
someone gets picked up for drunk driving , he should put enough in there that goes back into paying for that policeman being out there . 
so it 's self-defense on that point . 
as far as my defense budget they 're cutting it back now twenty-five percent ? 
i would n't want to see it cut any more than that . 
but again i 'd like to see something on the other end back into education . but not in the education we have today . 
so i 'm lost on that one . 
i would like to be a little more into investigating some of the other countries in the world and their educational problems . and to come up with something a little better than what we 've got . 
but i was just talking to somebody else , 
and all those european countries , they pay all the way through college and stuff like that . 
not so much pay . 
i 'm not trying to see the government put out any more . 
i know what you are saying . 
but i 'm just saying that even the differences is that some countries pay for students to go through college and etcetera . 
but here , it 's just up to high school . 
but we do n't even push the fact to the high school kids that there 's other means of education out there rather than college . 
to go either as an apprentice , which they do in other countries . 
just doing it , which would bring the education back up , 
why not apprentice out to a company and learn from down on the bottom as a wood worker or just a technician ? 
in a few years 
it 's not going to be overnight . 
but that would come down . 
they 're not willing to put the training for only a certain amount . 
one of the biggest things now is paralegals and stuff . 
they 're trying to get more people into that field . 
but they ca n't just bring somebody in without even having gone to school in that area before they can work for a lawyer as a paralegal . 
i see it being done . 
i know of a friend that works for my lawyer that has had no training whatsoever 
and she 's training her . 
i 'm assuming that it can be done . 
my perspective is that i 've been with a couple of big companies now . 
and it 's like they , are unwilling to put the time in . 
they want somebody when they bring them in , that they have a certain amount to contribute . 
obviously there 's a lot to learn after that . 
but , that 's true . 
let me change my channel , 
i 've got a cordless phone . 
let me see if that clears this up . 
is that better ? 
it was a cordless phone , 
and all of a sudden we had a bad frequency there or something . 
so we had some interference , 
so i changed that . 
it sounded you were calling from around the world somewhere . 
but i think , maybe they need to help promote that more . give incentives like if they do bring somebody on , they will pay some of their costs or give tax breaks or whatever it is , for them to train people stuff like that . 
programs like that . 
i do n't know what kind of options they 've got . 
that 's something about what germany 's supposed to be doing . something similar to that right now . 
and they have jobs out on bulletin boards so people know what is open for an apprentices in different fields . 
but that again would cut some of our budget down for education but build up our education with . people , , at high school level , which i would like to see . rather than so many kids getting out of school . 
they go on the unemployment list before we have turn around . because they do n't have any education . 
i do n't mean college . 
and i 'm for college . 
but there 's a lot of people that do n't want their higher education as far as quote college is concerned . 
they 've had it . 
i think , i just heard something the other day , 
it was either sixty percent or forty percent , go to college . 
and then out of that percentage , only so many can get their degree . 
i thought that was interesting . 
but most people i knew have gone and got their degree . 
but there 's a lot of them out there that have n't . 
and 
so i think , that demographic area there a lot of them do go on . 
and they go to college , etcetera . 
it seems to me that kids that get out of high school that parents have gone to college and college here and college there that are really not interested in going to college and forced into it , usually are your drop outs . 
because you can get just as far as being a journeyman , carpenter or an electrician or plumber or anything else like that . make as much money 
and if they enjoy it more , they 'll make a , happier life for themselves . 
question . 
you threw that question on me about the deficit , 
put it on your shoe now . 
what would you do ? 
my perception of the budget , 
and they have so much to spend 
and there 's not enough money to spread around . 
and that we have more money going out and too many goods coming into this country . 
japan still does not let us compete fairly in their country . 
and obviously the demand for their goods is quite high here , 
so they can get their goods in here . 
and to start even that out we need to continue to at least threaten that we 're going to give them higher tariffs , etcetera to raise their prices to ours . 
and the money being spent and the goods flow in we do n't sell products abroad as much as we bring in . 
one of the news stations they had on there , where the output from the united states was basically from smaller businesses rather than the larger ones are exporting . 
i started when i was in college . 
they always offer credit cards for college students . 
so i went ahead , and accepted every one that i was offered . because i knew it would be easier to go ahead and get them and establish credit early . 
so , i pack around a lot of them , 
but i only use a few of them . 
you have a lot of discipline . 
they make it really easy for people to get credit cards , especially college students . 
i have two daughters who both are in college 
or , in fact , one has finished now . 
but they both have a lot of credit cards . 
and they give you such high credit limits . 
it 's easy to get caught up in the minimum payment trap . 
and then they give you the credit limit , 
and then you 're always seemingly up to that limit . 
i have quite a few credit cards that i 'm always almost up to the limit on most of them . 
and that 's how a lot of people get into trouble . 
i 've got two that usually i 'll have a balance on . 
and then all of the others i just try to use kind of like you would an american express card and pay it off every month . 
and that way i feel like i 'm getting a thirty day loan . 
but i do n't have to worry about running them up too high , except at christmas . 
then they usually get run up pretty good . 
you have a lot of discipline . 
i 'm trying my best right now to pay off some of mine . 
i 've paid off about four credit cards this year . 
but still i have some that are up to the limit . 
and especially the visa card that you can go and get cash on . 
and it seems like every time i 'm short of cash , i just go get it from visa . 
i 've never used my visa for cash before . 
can you use it at a bank machine 
you can go in a bank and just hand them the visa card and say , `` i want a cash advance . '' 
or if they 've sent you a number that you can use a personal identification number that you can use in the impact machines or whatever , you can do that . 
because i have one that i do n't have a pin number for . 
sometimes you have to ask them for that . 
and then i have one that just gave me the pin number automatically . 
that 's funny you said that . because my husband and i got credit cards in the mail one day that we had n't even applied for . 
a couple of weeks later we got pin numbers , 
and then we got a bill saying the yearly fee , it was forty dollars . 
and we cut them up and sent them back because we had n't even applied for them , 
and we did n't want them . 
but they had just automatically approved us and sent them without even contacting us . 
so i thought , i do n't know if i trust this or not . 
they do that a lot if you have good credit and you have been paying your bills on time . 
everybody in the world will offer you a credit card . 
it 's let 's see if we can get her to run up her bills . 
but it 's hard , 
it 's tempting when you see something to say , `` i 'll just charge it . '' 
and sometimes i 'll do that , 
but usually i will try to pay everything off the next month 
or the ones that usually have an outstanding balance all the time , i 'll pay more than the minimum payment . 
just i feel like even that little bit helps . 
the way the economy 's going and inflation and the recession and all that , i think we really need to try to stay out of debt as much as possible . 
that 's why i 've really started to try to pay off mine and get out of debt . 
because we never know when we might get laid off or something . 
i know it . 
especially me . 
i work for texas instruments , 
and they 've had a lot of , layoffs lately . 
i work for t i too . 
you do ? 
and i think they 're getting ready to probably sell us out , our division . 
where are you ? 
in johnson city , tennessee . 
johnson city , 
i know they 're selling out somebody in colorado springs . 
they just announced that , did n't they ? 
so it 's kind of a bad time to be a slave to your credit cards . 
it certainly is . 
i have worked on a part time job where i was a collector . for a jewelry company . 
they just had this jewelry account . 
it was zales jewelry , in fact . 
they have about a thousand collectors , i guess . 
and there 's just so many people that have bought jewelry , which is really a luxury item 
and then they just ca n't pay for it . 
something happens , 
and you hear so many stories listening to them . like they lost their job 
or they 've signed for a friend . 
they got it in their name 
but they got it for a friend 
and then the friend would n't pay them . 
did n't pay them . 
and now they 're stuck with the bill , 
and it 's ruining their credit 
and you really have to watch this . 
that 's scary . 
because every month all of these credit cards report to the credit bureau automatically , 
most of them do . 
i did n't realize that . 
it 's bad because if your bill is due on the fifteenth then you 're not past due until the fifteenth of the next month . 
but if you pay one day after that fifteenth , you 're not one day late , 
you 're thirty days late . 
they do n't recognize any time difference , do they ? 
that 's scary . 
that 's something i never thought about checking with to see what your credit report looked like . 
you can do that . 
i believe it costs about ten dollars . 
might be worth it for peace of mind . 
it is , 
it is . 
you might even find somebody 's been reporting on you 
and you did n't even know it . 
you might think you 're paying something on time 
thirty days is not real bad though anyway . 
if you 've got a charge off on your credit report or something like that . 
that 's when it really gets bad . 
or something you have n't paid in sixty days or ninety days and things like that . 
i think that discover card has a good idea with giving you a little cash back incentive for each amount you purchase . as long as you do n't go crazy trying to get cash back . 
do they charge a lot of interest on that card ? 
i do n't know . 
i felt like with visa and mastercard and american express you did n't need another one . 
i would think it would n't be much more than the eighteen or nineteen percent everyone else charges . 
so that would n't be too bad . 
always watch out for anybody who bills you out of atlanta , georgia . 
or there 's a couple of other places that are able to charge us twenty-one and twenty-two percent interest . 
i know , 
i had a charge with spiegel , 
and i had n't read the terms of the credit agreement really . 
and when i did , i realized that it just seemed like i was never paying the balance off . 
and i looked at the credit card agreement one day , 
and it was twenty-three percent interest . 
and that 's the one bill that i hurried and paid up . 
and i 've always watched it since then . 
that 's awful . 
you really have to watch those interest rates . 
i mean , 
there 's no point in giving them any more money than we have to . 
that 's true . 
so they ca n't bill you any higher than eighteen percent in texas . 
but there are a couple of states that can . 
that 's great . 
and one to watch out for is anybody that bills you out of atlanta , georgia . 
i 'll try to remember that one . 
let 's see . 
i was trying to think if there was anything else . 
i guess the worst problem i ever had with a credit card though was i got an item on my bill that i had never purchased . 
i had ordered a sofa and had filled out the paperwork , 
but they were n't supposed to process it until they delivered it . 
and i changed my mind , 
but then they went ahead and charged it on my account . 
and it took me about eighteen months to get all of that mess off of my account . 
so that 's probably the worst thing i 've ever had happen with a credit card . 
i 'll let you go first . 
what 's there to say ? 
does n't seem like it 's being carried out very well in my opinion . 
seems like it takes so long between conviction and carrying out the penalty that i do n't see that it makes any difference to sentence anybody . 
it seems like they could die of old age waiting to get the death penalty . 
i know what you mean . 
in maryland they do have capital punishment , 
and i 've seen a lot of people get sentenced , 
and then just nothing happens , just endless , endless , endless appeals . 
i saw a statistic just a few days ago so far this year during a year 's time they executed twenty-five people in the nation . 
meanwhile , there were twenty-five hundred people on death row . 
and it 's building up , 
they 're convicting them faster than they 're executing them 
so it 's really building up . 
what 's amazing is some of them have been on death row for a number of years . 
and here in maryland i know we have a real problem with overcrowding in prisons , 
everybody 's got that . 
here it 's to the point where they were letting prisoners go . commuting the sentences of those that were in jail for lesser crimes , in order to put more people into the jails . 
and it was just amazing to me , 
and of course they made a big deal out of the few that got out and turned around and committed a crime within five days of getting out . 
is n't maryland where the famous willy horton case was . 
i ca n't remember . 
refresh my memory . 
that was the one that was used so much in the campaign . in the presidential race . 
it may not have been maryland . 
it may have been massachusetts , 
i do n't remember . 
i do n't remember myself . 
the question is do you think , it does make a difference in whether or not a criminal commits a crime or do you think it can if it 's done right ? 
if they started executing them on a regular basis i think it might make a difference . 
right now , i do n't see it making a difference . 
i do n't see someone not going out there and committing murder because they 're afraid they 're going to get sentenced to death . 
most people out there committing murders do n't care . 
they just do n't care . 
but so many of the people that commit crimes do n't get punished . 
the police do n't catch them , 
or the courts do n't convict them , 
or they do n't serve very much of the time 
and so their success rate is very high . 
crime does pay , 
you can make a good living at it . 
and we just had a real big cocaine bust , 
and of course they 're playing it up real big that it looked like it was a very , very small ring 
and they just happened to get lucky and catch the guy . 
but baltimore has an all time record for the number of deaths so far this year . 
i think they 've got over a hundred dead already this year . 
last year it was d c , 
i guess baltimore caught them . 
it 's kind of moved up 
and you have to remember that there 's x number of people out there that are going to commit murders , 
if you murder a guy because he murdered your partner or something like that pretty soon you run out of people to murder . 
the only consolation is so many of the murders are , the violent people going against each other 
society 's not going to put them to death , 
at least maybe the guy they cross next time is going to . 
i think capital punishment is an appropriate punishment for the kind of people where we say this sort of person is just not acceptable to our society 
and we are there by going to remove them from society , not temporarily , but permanently . 
i do n't think much of life imprisonment . 
first of all , it never , turns out to be life , 
but second why should we , 
the idea of life imprisonment with no chance of parole . 
that means you 're going to put them in a cage 
you think it 's never ever going to be safe for them to walk the streets again , 
then , why bother . 
just execute them , because that way you 're sure they 'll never ever going to walk the streets again . 
so anybody that says life in prison with no chance of parole , i 'd say give them the death penalty . 
it makes sense , 
you have the occasional person who may have been falsely accused , 
but so few and far between , 
makes good t v movies 
and that 's about it . 
and also the thing i do n't like about a lot of these court trials and a lot of these appeals is that it 's not based on what is true and what is false 
but rather it 's on the rules of evidence , what can i hide and what do i have to tell . 
and i think our courts should be geared much more strongly towards finding out the truth than they currently are . 
and that way we can be sure , 
we can find out the truth , 
we can find out what really happened and base the sentence on what the person did , not on what we 're allowed to let the jury hear . 
my father-in-law participated in a jury trial , 
he was actually on the jury , 
and this man was accused of killing two people and shooting a policeman point blank in the face . 
of course he did n't die . 
and this was during a holdup of a restaurant 
and it came out during the trial that they had tried to rob another place 
and when the guy came out with the bag they thought was money , it turned out to be a couple cookies jumbo cookies 
and so they were so upset from robbing this guy trying to do this holdup that did n't work that they quite literally were mad and went into a restaurant to hold the place up and just started shooting people . 
just started shooting people , because they botched the first job 
, so now they 're going to get even . 
and get even with who , 
stupid guys . 
and it turned out that the policeman survived to the point that he was able to identify the guy . 
and of course they tried to make the cop look like he was a no good rotten drunk . 
it was amazing . 
what was the verdict , 
what was the results there . 
he was found guilty , 
last i heard he beat a push for the death penalty . 
whether they finally got it or not , i do n't know . 
i kind of stopped listening after a while . 
he would come home 
and , after the trial was over he came home and told us what was going on 
the penalty phase , 
they , decide the penalty separately from the verdict . 
and everybody was pretty much let 's burn him . 
and that 's the way they wanted to do it . 
some people on the case were a little hesitant on convicting him on some of the charges 
but when it all came down , they just , within an hour decided the man 's fate . 
there 's really two separate decisions there i guess , 
one is , did it really happen the way the prosecutor said it happened , 
is this man really guilty , 
and you have to decide that , 
but then you have to decide as a member of society what do i want to do with this guy who did this thing . 
i 've never been on a jury , 
i 've never had that experience , 
i 'm not sure i 'd look forward to making that kind of decision about a man 's life . 
it went pretty quick from what he said . 
but there 's a lot of other crimes out there besides murder , 
i think now if you 're dealing drugs now there 's a death penalty associated with it . 
the thing i 'd be most likely to attach the death penalty to is the violence . 
i can handle people selling drugs , 
it 's wrong , 
but it 's not worth somebody getting executed for . 
but we hear so much about the violence and how it 's not safe to walk the streets . 
and the people i 'd most likely want to sentence to death are the people that just show a really low regard for human life . 
you , never know when they 're going to turn or hurt the next person because it does n't really matter to them whether someone else gets hurt or not . 
i agree . 
these are the kind of people i would like to get out of here and get out of circulation and say we do n't accept your kind in our society . 
i agree , 
i have , a low tolerance for that kind of person . 
kidnapping per se has a certain fine and penalty associated with it , 
but some of these people are just out and out brutal . 
do you exercise a lot ? 
it 's scaled back considerably . 
right now my exercise is pretty much limited to softball league and occasional ride on the bike , 
but i just nine months ago , got married and bought a house 
so my outside activities have been curtailed a lot . 
is mowing the lawn a new exercise ? 
lawn , 
it 's a forty year old house , 
so , we are doing a lot of refurbish work , 
and 
painting , lawn , gutters . 
you name it , 
all kinds of stuff , flower beds . 
i think that 's considered exercise whether you want it or not . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
there 's always something to do 
and it keeps me going . 
you are so far ahead of me . 
i used to walk two miles a day , 
and i really enjoyed it . 
because the two miles , went fairly quickly . 
i could do it in twenty-eight minutes . 
and that 's not stopping and talking to everyone along the way , 
but it 's a lot . 
it 's not too strenuous , 
and i could sort all kinds of things out and make plans and everything , 
but i do n't know what i did to my knee . 
i was crawling under a desk , hooking up a computer . 
and i mashed it wrong , 
or i did something . 
and the doctor has had me on medication , 
and she does n't want me to walk , 
she said , that while it 's healing , you 're going to mess it up , 
so i ca n't walk . 
and she said the most conservative approach , you do the medicine again and again , before you think of surgery . 
and i do n't want her to think of surgery on my knee . 
i do n't want anyone to think about that , ever . 
that 's a tough situation . 
that 's that microscopic stuff . 
not my kneecap . 
so , i 'm being very good . 
but , i miss it . 
i really do , 
it 's so aggravating to have an injury like that . 
my wife likes to run , 
we moved down to the north end of oak cliff in the castle park area . 
and she started running down there and all the hills . 
and she lasted about two weeks , 
and her ankles could n't take it anymore . 
she was used to running flat tracks and whatnot , 
and ever since that , it 's just been real difficult . 
it 's real aggravating , because she starts in 
and her ankles will start hurting again and stuff . even if she does get on flat ground , 
so she 's kind of in the same mode . 
she was all ready to get back into it and start running five k 's , and ten k 's and stuff this spring , 
and she just has n't been able to stick with the training schedule long enough to really get back in shape . 
and , when you want to do it , it 's really , really aggravating . 
it 's one thing to get motivated to start doing the exercise , 
and it 's another thing to already be past that and then not be able to because of your health . 
can you understand that . 
i do n't really want to , 
i just , know i need to . 
i make myself do it 
and if i do it 
i do n't love it , , 
but i will do it . 
but i can really tell the difference , since i have not been able to walk . 
i have got to be so much more careful with what i do . 
it 's depressing . 
it is , 
speaking for myself i do n't sleep as well , when i am not exercising , 
and it 's harder to get out of bed in the morning and all kinds of stuff , 
your body just gets used to it . 
i do n't particularly enjoy it . 
i used to lift weights an awful lot , and stuff like that . 
i do enjoy riding bike , 
but as far as the working out and lifting and things like that . i ca n't say i really enjoyed it all that much , 
but once i got used to it , it was habit forming . 
it was , 
i felt so bad if i did n't , 
physically , i mean 
my body was tuned into that mode , 
and if i skipped it then it kind of threw the whole system out of whack . 
hopefully my knee is a hundred percent better . 
maybe i can get back into it . 
that 's for sure . 
let me ask you a question off the subject though . 
you 're living in the castle park area ? 
that 's right . 
i grew up in oak cliff . 
did you really ? 
i did . 
just close to methodist hospital . 
on candy , 
c a n d y . 
in fact , i lived there until late nineteen fifties . 
and that area , is it changing back again ? 
so many people are moving back into those old houses and are restoring them . 
it is . 
we 're on a little street called bison trail . 
it 's only about a block and a half long , 
but it 's over on the other end . 
it 's over by the far edge of stephen 's park golf course . 
i know exactly where that is . 
you know where the little bridge is on north oak cliff boulevard ? 
we are just south of that little bridge , back-up on the hill in the trees there , 
and 
our street is an awful lot of retired people , 
in fact , our one little block and a half there , four houses sold last summer 
and three sold the summer before , 
and everybody in their late twenties to mid-thirties are buying , and starting to rebuild and fix things up again 
and everybody is real excited . 
that 's wonderful . 
that is a gorgeous , gorgeous place . 
it 's a lot of fun , 
the people are great . 
there too , we 've got a real active neighborhood association . 
and we 've got four regular parties every year 
and we do a neighborhood recycling program and , all that kind of stuff . 
so , it 's a lot of fun 
and it 's a really beautiful area . 
and some of the higher dollars lawyers and stuff downtown too , are picking up some of those great big houses , 
and they 're getting them at a real bargain . 
they are . 
you know . 
they 're getting four thousand square feet for a hundred fifty , a hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars . 
and they 're just going to town with them . 
people are putting in pools and completely redoing the outside restoring to the original nineteen thirty , nineteen forties look . 
and it 's really coming around . 
i guess ... 
i need to go over there and just drive around and look . 
it 's worth the trip . 
i 'm sure it must be . 
we had a lovely little house over there , 
it was a two story . 
story and a half , really , because we had a basement . 
and the guy that built it was weird , 
i mean weird . 
it 's one of these really creative houses , that i grew up in that nothing was on the same level with anything else . 
and i just loved the neighborhood . 
and everyone had houses like that . 
they were all completely different . 
that 's right . 
and so neat . 
it 's twenty-eight by fifteen front porch . 
next door , we 've got an austin stone . 
it was burnt out about two years ago 
it 's got a rounded front on it . 
it 's all brick , 
and he 's landscaped his yard 
and he 's about ready to put in a pool and things like that . 
so 
there 's a variety , 
you just do n't see it anywhere else , as far as the different styles in the houses and whatnot . 
why could n't your wife run around the golf course ? 
is that not good ? 
she could , a little bit . 
i tell you what , 
we got into the fitness center at methodist 
and they have a quarter mile track there . 
so she has started doing that rather than take off . 
the problem is she 's a school teacher 
and for her , she ca n't run in the morning . 
for her to get home and try to run at six o'clock in the night , in the winter time , it 's starting to get dark 
she does n't want to be out by herself anywhere in dallas . 
regardless whether it 's north dallas or whatnot , when she goes over to this fitness center , it 's fenced in , 
and there 's somebody in the building , watching her and all that , 
so there 's a lot of consideration . 
i really hear that , 
i think you 're in oak cliff . 
but , i 'm in plano . 
in west plano . 
and we live on one of those blocks that it 's a neighborhood watch block . 
we all know each other , 
and the street does n't go anywhere . 
if you are on the street , you better belong there . because it 's not a through street . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
and , still , i want to get up early in the morning and walk . before this knee business . 
and my husband had a lot of heartburn with that . 
it looked darker to him , because he was in the house with the lights on . 
when i was out walking , it , was more of a predawn type , 
he did n't think it looked predawn to him . 
it looked dark . 
and even he was real concerned about that . 
so , it 's not just because you are in oak cliff , 
it 's just because you 're smart . 
that 's true . 
that you do n't do things like that . 
it only takes one time . 
that 's right . 
it 's a hard lesson to learn . 
there 's only one crazy out there to make any difference . 
it goes all over 
what do you do to exercise ? 
i weight train three days on and one day off . 
i ride bicycles , fifteen , twenty miles maybe three times , maybe four times a week . 
i play basketball couple times a week . 
i play softball one night a week . 
that 's what i do . 
what about yourself ? 
that 's pretty impressive . 
i guess i bicycle . 
the amount varies 
as much as a hundred and fifty miles a week . 
i guess a play softball one night a week . 
and i backpack a lot over the summer . 
that 's about the extent of it . 
i do n't do any of those things particularly for exercise . 
but i guess the bicycling is the one thing i 'll sort of do if i feel like i need to go exercise . 
but i do it mostly for fun . 
what do you ride , 
a bunch of hills or pretty flat ? 
it varies . 
out near my house is pretty hilly . 
but sometimes i bike to work which is about a fifteen mile trip each way . 
and that 's mostly flat . 
how long does that take you to get to work ? 
about forty-five , fifty minutes . 
how does that work out with storing your bike and showering and all that ? 
it can be a pain . 
basically i work on a campus 
so i can store my bike in my office and walk across the campus to the gym , use the shower there 
but , it 's enough of a pain , that i did it consistently one year , 
i would commute every day , 
but it just became such a pain . 
we 're talking forty-five , fifty minutes for biking and sometimes longer if you had adverse wind . 
and then another half an hour to cool down and take a shower and all this kind of stuff . 
it was a big hunk of the day . 
and then of course another hour to get back home . 
so i 've been doing that less , and concentrating more on light biking when i get home on the evening and then some more on the weekends . 
do you ride a lot of rallies or a lot of those around there ? 
not so much . 
i guess mostly i bike on my own . 
i 've got a touring bike . though i have n't gone on any extended trips with it . 
how about you , 
what kind of biking do you do ? 
actually my wife just got me into it 
and i did an internship at the institute for aerobics research in dallas , the cooper clinic , 
i was a solid weight trainer , 
and all i did was weights and aerobic exercise 
and then my wife got me into the aerobic exercise and said you really need to do it , 
so , once i got into this internship , i learned all the physiological advantages to it , 
so i began a program probably three or four weeks ago 
and i did my first bike rally this saturday . 
i did forty miles , 
and that 's the longest i 've ever ridden so far , 
i usually . 
and it was kind of hilly 
and it was pretty tough , 
but i 'm looking at doing a lot more of it because my wife is really into it , 
i see . 
and i kind of held her back a little bit this weekend . 
she wanted to go , go , go , 
but she wanted to stay with me . 
it 's good to have a partner . 
it really is . 
are you ... 
that would be cool sometime if i could work up to that . 
i just wondered if you were going to do that mostly or more touring from vermont or that kind of , thing . 
people seem to get into different aspects . 
they want to put some equipment on their bike and go for a tour . 
i 've never really looked into that . 
my wife would just love that . 
and i may do that sometime . 
there again , i 'm just kind of a fledgling into this . 
it 's kind of funny . 
i called this number 
and i was just reading through a bicycle magazine and going through all the different tours coming up . 
around texas , you got about five or six , 
if you live around the dallas area , you got five or six every weekend to choose from . because they 're really into it . 
that 's nice . 
bicycling is really big here . 
i did n't know that , until i came down here , and , kind of caught the fever . 
because i lived in indiana all my life 
and you may see one or two guys on a bicycle that , or above the age of fifteen or something , 
but , other than that it 's nothing up there like it is down here . 
i 'm not sure why that is . 
generally in the midwest it seems to be less , much less . 
maybe it 's because of the winters . or maybe just because there 's a lot more flat lands out in the west . 
so it makes biking a better alternative for transportation . 
there 's a lot of bikers around here . 
it 's really neat . 
there are a lot of resources , a lot of magazines , and stuff , 
little texas bicyclist , is a little newspaper that comes out every month . 
it 's free 
just go to the bike shop and pick it up , 
and it 's got all the rides coming up , 
so i guess i 'm going to be busy about every saturday this summer , going to a different ride . 
that 's terrific . 
see a little bit of texas i 've never seen before . 
so how long have you been biking ? 
i guess as an adult for just about the past three years or so . 
i guess last time i did it before that was college , which was about ten years ago . 
and 
i guess i just never really thought about it much for a while until i suddenly discovered all my friends were basically biking a lot . 
and so i thought i 'd try it , too . 
i have n't , 
because from what i understand , it really improves your cholesterol 
and it kind of knocks down two of the big risk categories for coronary artery disease which is low cardiovascular fitness , and also the cholesterol . 
it gives you increased h d ls and decreases your l d ls . 
that 's great . 
i 've definitely noticed it 's had a good effect on my pulse rate , my resting pulse . 
it gets it down to about forty . 
that 's good . 
you say you ride about a hundred , hundred fifty miles a week ? 
that 's hard-core . 
on average , 
when do you get to begin with the winters and all that ? 
do you ride inside if you ca n't ride outside ? 
i 'm not that hard-core . 
in fact a lot of people will ride outside in the snow . 
they 've got a mountain bike with the big knobby tires . 
and , i do n't do that . 
i pretty much lay off for the winter . 
i was thinking of getting rollers for the last winter because it will help your balance when you 're indoor training . 
but i just more or less stocked an exercise bike and that kind of thing . , 
but 
winters are kind of a problem 
so , i 'm more or less out of shape now that i 've been biking this year for just a couple of weeks . 
but up here , it 's only stopped snowing since then . 
, but 
it 's pretty good . 
the main thing for me is just to enjoy it because once it starts seeming like exercise and a chore , i 'll lay off it more . 
i try to go someplace pretty different every week . 
i rotate around about four different routes from my house 
or i 'll sometimes come in the school . 
it 's nice riding to school because it 's all along a canal path , 
because it 's along the erie canal up here . 
what school is it ? 
university of rochester . 
so it 's fairly picturesque . 
so it 's a good ride 
as long as you 're not doing it every day , it 's a good ride . 
that 's true . 
sounds neat . 
i was wondering if i was going to talk with someone that never has exercised before and does n't want to and everything else , 
but got a guy that rides a hundred and fifty miles a week . 
that 's motivating . 
that 's really good . 
good talking to you 
it was good talking to you . 
and keep up the good work . 
you , too . 
take care . 
what kind of puppy you got ? 
i think she 's mostly german shepherd . 
a person lives across the street from me brought her home from work because a coworker of hers had this dog appear on its front doorstep , 
somebody abandoned her 
and , she 's only six to eight weeks old 
and i ca n't understand why anyone would abandon this dog , though . 
she 's this young 
and she 's almost housebroken . 
she actually asks to go out . 
that 's great . 
and 
i was amazed . 
really good temperament and very playful and affectionate , good personality . 
i do n't know , 
i ca n't imagine what would have been wrong with this dog , 
i have a dog that god gave us too , . 
she just appeared . 
my husband calls her street dog , 
but we 've had her now for about three years , 
you get so attached to them . 
last year i had another german shepherd , 
this one was purebred 
and he , when he was about seven months old got a gastrointestinal virus and was just about on death 's door 
but managed to get him to a veterinarian in time , 
and on huge doses of antibiotics , he actually got over it with , seven hundred dollars in vet bills , 
but he actually was able to get him over that . 
and then he was gaining weight again , was just getting healthy , 
and he put on about fifteen to twenty pounds after the thing 
and then he got hit by a cadillac . 
so , i could n't believe it . 
that was really hard . 
i was on a business trip at the time 
and the dog was being house sit , or dog sit , whatever , by some friends of mine down the street , 
so they just felt absolutely awful . 
i bet . 
and i felt probably worse for them than for me because this fellow 's wife who was watching the dog , she loved that dog more than i did 
and . she was really attached to it , 
but it 's unfortunate , 
but now , i 've got another one , 
how long has it been since the first one ? 
it was just over a year . 
it was in march of last year . 
so 
did n't have one for a whole year . 
i had a german shepherd before this one 
and when she died it just absolutely destroyed me . 
i could n't even talk about it for months 
and so i decided that 's it , 
i 'm not going to do this anymore . 
and then god gave me this dog , 
my dad 's like that , 
he had a beagle that he loved 
and when that beagle passed away he was n't going to have another dog , 
there 's no way , 
and then the beagle died in about october 
and by christmas time we went down to the pound and got him humane society and got another one , a stray . 
and she turned out to be a great dog 
and we had her for six years until she just passed away recently 
and again dad went through the whole thing , 
you just do , 
it 's like a kid . 
it is . 
hopefully this one here , cocoa will live a full life . 
my doggie that we have now she 's mostly golden retriever . 
the vet called her a golden mix , 
who knows . 
but she 's that sort of strawberry blonde reddish color . 
and her nose is that pink , 
she does n't have a brown nose , 
and she 's sort of unicolor , 
eyes are the same color and everything , 
so . i named her rosebud , 
this friend of mine grew up on a farm and said that she had a pet cow named rosebud 
and she said there 's a lot of longevity in that name , said my cow lived seventeen years . 
that 's not too bad . 
the golden retrievers are good dogs too , 
they kind of get that permanent smile to them , 
they 're always , always happy . 
i do n't think i 've ever seen them not look happy . 
and she 's so easy going and so sociable , 
she loves everybody . 
and little kids can just maul all over her , 
and she just thinks it 's great . 
it 's the same guy that was watching my german shepherd when he got hit , 
he 's got a pure bred golden retriever 
and then i had the puppy , a little tiny puppy 
and we went and took the two dogs up fishing . 
they had a ball romping around , 
and you ca n't get a golden retriever near water without it jumping in . 
getting in , 
and this golden retriever jumped in the , really fast moving river current , 
actually he had no trouble at all . 
he first jumped in 
i do n't think he 'd swum before . 
but he jumped in the river . 
did puppy go to ? 
i was careful to keep her away from the fast moving water , 
that 's good , 
'cause if she fell in then i 'd of had to go in after her . 
and up here the water 's probably about forty degrees right now . 
and i would not have been fun trying to retrieve her , 
but this dog , dennis jumped in and got this look on his face like what do i do now , as he 's floating down the river then finally discovered that he could swim and actually paddled up against the current and made it back to the shore and climbed up 
and then , he jumped in again , 
and he was swimming for quite a bit , all afternoon . 
he loved it . 
cocoa did n't think too much of it , though . 
she jumped in and then started screaming and made me pull her back out . 
i pulled her out and then had to wrap her up in a sweatshirt because she was shivering so bad , 
but , she got over it , 
we had a little pool , 
and she did not want any part of swimming 
but she liked to get in the pool on the first step . 
she 'd just get on the first step and lay down in the summertime when it 's really , really hot . 
and she 'd just lay there on that step and just cool off . 
i live right across the street from a big lake here , 
it 's on oneida lake 
and i 'm wondering if she 'll want to go out there and go swimming next year . 
the yard 's all fenced in 
so she does n't run loose , 
but she could go in sometime if i 'm watching her , 
the one that we had just did n't want any part of that . 
baths . 
she hated baths worse than anything . 
it was just really a fight to get her clean . 
have you seen canine . the movie , 
you 've got to see it . especially since you have a german , 
it is so cute . 
an part of the movie is where he 's trying to clean this dog up 
and it 's just hysterical . 
my dog , last german shepherd , it was a real chore trying to give him a bath too . 
and that was the thing i could n't figure out because he would go in the lake , 
normally he did n't seem to have a problem with getting wet , 
but if you wanted to get him wet , forget it . 
she 'd lay on her step , 
but that was the only time she wanted to get wet 
and she did n't want you getting her wet . 
obstinate , 
obstinate . 
but you really need to see that movie . 
we bought the movie 
and i do n't know how many times i 've seen it . 
and it came on t v the other night 
and i was watching it again , 
and my husband heard me laughing 
and he said i ca n't believe that you 're still getting such a kick out of that movie . 
i 'll have to check it out . 
i saw the , previews for it and all 
and it did look like it 'd be a good movie , 
it is great . 
really have n't had a whole lot of time to get out to see the movies lately . 
but , i got to do more fun things . 
we always wait until we can rent them . 
i 'm a second lieutenant in the air force 
and so i travel a lot . 
and 
i 'm a engineer at the rolm laboratory , griffis air force base , up here , 
that 's how i got into the switchboard project and all that , 
but it 's nice having a dog here , 
what 's the word i 'm looking for , 
lots of affection , unconditional affection from the dog . 
that 's it . 
not critical at all . 
they 're really wonderful . 
it 's been nice talking to you , 
we seem to be degenerating here , 
it has a death penalty does n't it ? 
they just started it again , too just late , or , within the past few years . 
for quite some time , just about every one of the states had given up the death penalty . 
but now it 's coming back into favor . 
they find it is more deterrent . 
my sociology class at s m u 's taught us that it was not a deterrent . 
but now that 's just what they said . 
i do n't know 
maybe if i went back and took a sociology class now they 'd say it is a deterrent . 
if you compare the figures , i think that 's where they 're coming from . 
maybe they 've changed their minds . 
maybe that 's it . 
maybe that 's it , 
because that was back in the seventies . 
. they are . 
that was before they adopted the death law again . 
but i myself am in favor of it particularly for crimes , murders related with drugs or killing a policemen . 
i agree . 
but i think it ought to be expanded to include children . 
i think they 're working on something in austin now , 
and i 'm not sure what it is , 
i just remember seeing a kind of a synopsis of it . 
why stop at children ? 
why not go to adults , too ? 
i 'm personally very in favor of it . 
why should we let them set in prison and work on their college degrees after they 've mowed down a class yard full of kids or tried to , or given their best effort at doing that . 
i do n't care to support them . 
i do n't either 
or just for the sake of argument , i 'm taking a con , 
i 'm against it . 
you know yourself 
how many times have you heard where a citizen was wrongfully arrested , and served time at a penitentiary , 
just recently this black man served nine years for robbery . 
and then , there was the black woman that , robbed and shot the furrier . 
and she was set free , too , just in two examples in texas recently . 
but she actually killed the furrier . or someone , 
she was charged with murder 
and then , then they decided it was a case of mistaken identity or something . 
i did n't retain all those facts very well . 
what if we make a mistake . 
that 's it . 
and that 's not one of those things that you can turn the wheel back and reverse everything . 
right now our laws are so liberal that even with the death penalty in effect , i do n't think that they 're going to use it too frequently unfortunately . 
i , like you , say yes 
let 's have it , give them all a shot , get rid of them . 
i guess , though , where i would have a problem with it . 
why should they be sitting in prison getting their college degree . 
that 's tougher . 
it 's easier to say it on the telephone and , 
it 's a deterrent to crime , 
they should n't catch themselves in that circumstance anyway . 
but to be one of the ones that decide , that would be tougher for me . 
very true . 
i agree with you there . 
i think i 'd probably do it 
but we could never say what we would do if we 're not in the circumstance . 
that 's a real easy thing to say that , i would , 
but i do n't know . 
i myself would n't want to be on the jury like that . 
that 's an awful lot to expect of a person , 
to kill somebody is what it amounts to . 
but that 's what they did . 
but they did it because they have a warped mind for some reason . 
or rather than have a warped mind it was just the only way to get whatever they wanted . 
and they wanted something more than they respect the human life . 
i guess we both agree that it should be in effect . 
hang them . 
i agree it should be in effect . 
also i agree there should be a lot of care in the enforcement , 
so i guess i would say i want it to be in effect 
i have a problem with this , too . 
i think our courts have too many opportunities for them to go back and get one more chance . 
that 's true . 
just believe in just about any state in the union a death verdict is an automatic appeal . 
that 's correct . 
it is , 
it is . 
i 'm inclined to agree with you . 
i think so , 
there should be a limit as to the number of appeals . 
and maybe i do n't remember if this is texas or not , that has something about all drug dealers can be sentenced to the death sentence . 
not just for dealing in drugs . 
convicted drug dealers . 
there are certain circumstances , 
and i do n't remember what they are . 
they 're on the distribution end . 
they 're not selling them , 
they 're distributing them . 
it 's for the large dealers is what , it 's reserved for . 
and they are in effect killing people . 
i believe it 's any capital crime related to drugs . 
i think that 's the way it 's worded . 
is that how it 's worded ? 
i knew it was there 
or is it proposed 
or is it passed ? 
i do believe that 's in . 
i would n't swear to it myself . 
i believe it is , 
but i thought it was in effect . 
i believe you 're right , though . 
i think it is . 
and i have to agree with that . 
i think it certainly should be one of the options . 
i 've been fortunate with my children and grandchildren , so far that i know . 
i qualify that heavily , 
because you never know , 
but to the best of my knowledge we have n't had a major problem yet . 
but it just touches so many young people . 
my children are about in the same age bracket . 
it does . 
i have four sons myself , 
and the youngest is twenty-eight , 
so they are all pretty well grown up 
and they all went through it going through high school and everything 
i wo n't say they did n't try it , 
i would n't know , 
i doubt very much that they 're using it now . 
in fact i 'm sure they do n't . 
i think , the oldest is thirty-two 
and the youngest is probably twenty-seven , twenty-eight . 
it 's the same age bracket . 
and there 's four , two girls and two boys . 
and i think one of each experimented very slightly with pot , 
and i think that was the extent of it to the best of my knowledge . 
that 's usually the way it is . 
it 's just try it out with their peers . 
and none of them even smoke . 
they do n't , 
strangely enough their mother and i both smoked when they were growing up . 
my ex-wife , she quit when she was pregnant with the last one 
and she never started up again . 
and i just quit about fourteen months and two weeks ago . 
that 's tough . 
it is . 
and it seems to be getting tougher as time goes by . 
my husband has n't quit , yet . 
and he knows he has to 
and he knows he should 
but he has n't . 
i do respect the fact , though , that he refuses to smoke in the same room with me . 
he 's very conscious of passive smoking 
and he 's concerned about it but , has n't quite made it yet . 
when i was still smoking , i felt that way . 
if i was in a public restaurant , seated at table with non smokers i would try to pick my , seat where the smoke would blow away from them . 
or i 'd hold the cigarette under the table . 
i 've seen all of this , 
but , now the shoe 's on the other foot . 
i 'm aware of other people smoking now . 
charles will not smoke in anyone else 's house except our own . 
he will get up 
and he 'll go outside , 
particularly if they have children . 
and he tries his best , 
but the actual quitting he has n't done . 
he changed brands to a brand he does n't like . 
he put up all of his ash trays . 
he will not smoke in a comfortable position , 
but still , he 's done everything the smokers anonymous tell you to do except quit smoking . 
it 's a , long process . 
there 's a trick i use . 
they used to leave my cigarettes in the glove compartment . 
how neat . 
and every time i wanted one i have to go outside and just take one . one at a time . 
and that gets to be , a deterrent . 
he has his in the kitchen , 
have you taken anything back lately that you 've bought ? 
the only thing we 've taken back recently are plants . shrubbery , that were guaranteed 
why ? 
and we had no problem with it . 
we got our money back . 
do you think that consumer goods are generally getting better , or worse in quality ? 
i believe they 're better . 
i do too . 
i believe about ten years ago that we went through a terrible time , 
i believe that they 're better now , 
i think so . 
i do n't think they 're shoddy , 
not as shoddy . 
electrical appliances i think are pretty good , reliable . 
however , i did n't like it very well when the transmission went out on my car with sixty-three thousand miles on it . 
and i do n't like it very well when my electric blanket that was only one year old went out on one side . 
did you return it ? 
i had moved away . 
i had taken the first one back . 
i did n't think that it heated well enough . 
it never did get anything but just moderately warm , 
took it back 
and the people told me that 's the way it 's supposed to be 
and i fell for it 
and when i got this one it heated a little bit warmer 
and then after one year it started heating only on one side . 
so either you or your husband can be warm 
but not both . 
also , i took an iron back after having it only one year . 
i figure anybody that is dumb enough to iron , needs to have an iron that will last a long time , 
and one year of ironing only once a week is not long enough for it to last . 
did they replace it ? 
without even any question , 
but i think it was the store . 
wal-mart . 
wal-mart , 
i was going to say , it must have been wal-mart . 
and have you been buying any clothes lately ? any new clothes ? 
the last thing i bought was a dress last summer . 
and the buttons turned on it over the winter . 
the buttons tarnished slightly 
and i have not gone back about it . 
that was poor quality , i think . 
i think it is too , 
and it was an expensive dress . 
i wondered if it were n't expensive , 
it was . 
and they should have put buttons on it that would last forever . 
that 's right , 
that 's what i think too . 
and the chain belt loop half of it raveled out . 
and that was a leslie faye dress 
and it was over a hundred dollars . 
you spent that much on your dresses ? 
i do n't usually , 
but i did that one . 
you 're really divulging very personal information . 
but i think it should have been better than that , for that money , is what i mean . 
of course , i do too . 
i believe that we 've been talking about five minutes . 
i think so . 
and norma , it is just wonderful to talk to you . 
good talking to you too , 
i 've enjoyed it . 
you are a good one to talk about consumer goods , because you keep up on it all the time . 
we 'll be talking to you later . 
i do n't have strong feelings about changes to be made in the jury system , do you ? 
not at all . 
in fact , i 'm graduating from college in about a week 
and this past semester i 've taken two criminal justice classes and have discussed a lot on trials . 
then you must know a lot more about this than i do . 
i think , the system right now is fine . 
i think it should be by a jury . 
he 's just there kind of like the referee . 
i do n't even think that it should be unanimous either . , 
what about the idea that one is only guilty when proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt ? 
i thought that was the point of a unanimous jury was the idea that if everyone agrees then there should n't be any reasonable doubt . 
but , if there are some people who do n't agree it seems to be there must be at least a reasonable doubt for some people . 
i do n't know . 
you hear , of course there 's cases where someone has been put in , prison falsely accused 
but more than likely the people that are on the jury know what they 're doing . 
have you served on a jury ? 
never . 
i never have either , 
but my few friends who have say just the opposite . 
they say they 're remarkably incompetent . and do n't know what they 're doing and say one thing in the courtroom 
and then as soon as they get in the back room they just start letting all their prejudices hang out to air , and all that . 
when the prosecution and defense are choosing the jury you would think that those would come out 
they do n't want you on the jury . 
they do n't want anyone with particular experience or knowledge of the legal system . 
exactly . 
anyone can get out of jury just about , 
let 's say i were arrested falsely or not and put up for a jury 
i would n't feel that i would be being tried by a jury of my peers . 
i 'd be tried by a jury of people who had nothing else to do and were n't very knowledgeable about certain sorts of things , 
and i do n't know , 
i get a little bit nervous about it , 
i 've never even been called to jury duty . 
i was called once , 
but i was out of the country , 
and apparently they thought i served 
so i did n't make any noise about it . 
i came back 
and they said the record showed i served , 
but i was out of the country at the time , 
so i 'm pretty sure i did n't . 
i do n't know , 
i guess there 's a lot of problems with the legal system . 
i do n't know , 
i definitely feel like we need to keep it at least unanimous because there 's the classic sort of to kill a mockingbird kind of story where you get jury which can have all kinds of prejudices and things that , a judge at least officially is n't supposed to have . though , of course they can , too . 
and it seems to me that if you could just have a simple majority or something you could pretty much browbeat the jury , a majority of the jury , 
that 's hard to say . 
so , it 's , saying , we do n't like the way he looks 
and , let 's throw the rascal in jail and stuff . 
i have some friends who do expert witness testimony 
and they say that juries are extremely vulnerable to sort of emotional pitches , 
the prosecutor will want to show the mugging victim show the nice person he was and what a family life , and basically get the jury to be very sympathetic with the victim , 
or , if it 's a corporation , that was harming some individual or something like that , they get very much , , it 's just a big faceless corporation . 
let 's make them pay as much as possible . 
things like that . 
the problem is i ca n't guarantee that a judge would necessarily be much better than a jury , 
but i 'd be real nervous having a jury not at least fully agree on what the settlements would be , things like that . 
i do n't think the judge should just make the decision alone . 
least with the jury you have twelve people that are going to decide , 
you 're the person 's fate . 
how about having a jury and a judge work together on it somehow ? 
i wonder if that 's possible ? 
i guess the judge 's time is worth too much , though . 
they pay those jury members very little money compared to that judge . 
he makes more money in an hour than all twelve of them put together . 
probably , 
but 
somebody 's life is in twelve people 's hands 
and sometimes those twelve people could care less . 
because when they go through those processes they kind of pick out who they want . 
of course . 
it 's political maneuvering . 
the one side is looking for someone whose face they think will want to hang everyone , 
and the other one is going to look for someone very sympathetic . 
they 're not looking for someone who 's going to be the most reasoned or sensible or rational juror . 
neither side wants that . 
they want to find a juror that 's going to be most persuadable by their arguments . 
i wish it were a little bit harder to not serve on juries actually . 
i know , it 's tricky because i know an awful lot of intelligent people who just , 
and they just answer one of the questions the wrong way because you can do that , 
they just say do you believe in such and such . 
i guess it 's just that maybe people are upset at court . 
if it was a family member of theirs , though that was innocent , then they 'd want to be on that jury . 
course , they would be barred , 
and something you have to do . 
it sounds like we both need to get out there and serve on a jury . 
i hope we 're called up before too long . 
i would love to be called , 
i 'm ready to go . 
they just have n't called me up yet . 
they will eventually . 
it was nice talking with you . 
it was nice talking to you . 
and what part of virginia ? 
i live down in the south western part of blacksburg . 
blacksburg . 
have you ever heard of virginia tech ? 
sounds vaguely familiar . 
v p i . 
i had n't been down in that part of the state really . 
we vacation a lot . 
how about you ? . 
quite frequently . 
i wish we did . 
we retired early 
so , we take trips pretty often . 
where all you guys go ? 
we go to maine every fall 
then that 's kind of a family visit and a vacation all up and down the coast 
and i have a daughter in texas and one in new mexico , 
so we go out there 
and we go to florida 
we were just out recently at the outer banks of north carolina . 
all these places that i 've never been . 
is that right . 
where do you go ? 
what type of vacation ? 
it really depends , 
seems like i do a lot in the midwest lately , 
my fiancee 's family 's from wisconsin 
and so we 've been out there a couple of times 
and i went to purdue for a couple of years , 
so i 've gone up to indianapolis on occasion to visit friends 
and i 'm a real big baseball fan 
so i usually try to combine it with catching a couple of games somewhere . 
what club do you follow ? 
i 'm a big red sox fan , 
me too . 
you 're a red sox fan too ? 
i usually try to catch whoever 's in town though , 
i go to cleveland to see them play , the indians or the red sox , 
that 's about it , 
we do a lot of little trips around here , 
ever go up in pennsylvania in the mountains 
not that much . 
we 've gone out to a place in western pennsylvania called falling water . 
have you ever heard of it ? 
i 've heard of it . 
i 've never been there . 
it 's really neat . 
it 's this house built on a waterfall 
and it 's really cool . 
of course , we keep picking crummy weather to go out there , 
the first time we went out there was the day after hurricane hugo had come through . 
so they did n't have any power 
and it was really cold and rainy 
and we went up about a year later 
and it was better but not a whole , lot better . 
so where else did we go , 
we 've gone to richland , last year and had a good time , down there . 
did you ? 
did you go , to williamsburg , 
have you been down there ? 
my girlfriend has with her sisters 
but i have n't been , down there . 
i hear that 's nice . 
we 're going to get , probably down sometime this summer , just to catch a football game actually . 
when we came back from the outer banks we came up due norfork and spent the night there with a friend in portsmith and then went to williamsburg and spent a night . 
spend a day and a lot of money . 
i 'm not real interested in williamsburg because of the price attached , to it . 
but it 's a pretty neat down to just go and walk around , if you like to walk , 
it 's a good town to just , walk in . 
we 'll , do that . 
you can wander , 
it 's a good town to wander in . 
i just have it pay somebody to get into the buildings ? 
that 's right . 
i did n't know that . 
they really did throw away a lot of money getting one thing or another , 
but they had a good time 
we really did n't do that really this time , 
we just visited around . 
we 've done it a couple of times 
and that 's enough for probably another twenty years . 
we use it live in california 
up around san francisco , 
and there was one year when my father 's company was starting to do stuff down in los angeles , 
so , my father was working down in los angeles for six months or so , 
actually i think it was closer to a full year 
and he 'd fly down there on mondays and fly back on fridays , 
any time we had a school vacation or something like that we went down to los angeles , 
so i went to disneyland about five times , in one year 
and i really have no great urge to go back now . 
that 's great as a kid though , is n't it , 
it was great , because the times that were really fun were when we had vacation 
but the kids in los angeles did n't 
so we basically had one of the parks . 
there 's still a lot of people at disneyland , 
but there was another amusement park down there , busch gradens , 
there was nobody there when we were there , 
we won a log floating ride five straight times , 
we just get done with them 
and they go , do you want to go again , 
you 've never been down to epcot at florida and disney 
i 'd like to , sometime 
that 's good , 
we really enjoy that , 
we 've been two or three times and probably . 
i 've never been , 
the fartherest south i 've been on the east coast is charlotte . 
so , i keep wanting to get further , 
i thought i would go to florida a couple summers , ago 
but never did it . 
charleston is a really nice place to visit . 
my sister lives in charlotte 
and they 've gone to , charleston a couple of times and had a real good , time . 
it 's a real pretty place . 
one of these days we 'll get down there , although . i do n't know when we 're going to have vacation to do it . 
we 're getting married in about , a year 
are you . 
and , our honeymoon , we 're going up to this place in wisconsin called door county , 
it 's up by green bay . 
it 's a place my girlfriend 's also wanted , to go , 
is it on one of the lakes ? 
i do n't 
but there 's kind of a little thing sticking out in the lake michigan , 
that 's door county . 
that would , be really nice . 
they call it the cape cod of the midwest 
so we 're thinking that 'll be a lot of fun , 
she had this book of pictures from it that were really nice , kind of like a travel guide 
sounds good . 
so that should be a lot of fun . 
i do n't know what our next trip will be , 
i 'm going to be a grandmother in july . 
the first one , 
so my next trip is going to be to texas . 
that 'll be fun . 
in the middle of the summer . 
you wo n't even , notice it though . 
they 'll be air-conditioning anyway 
is that how you got into this data base ? 
my daughter 's a temp at texas instruments , and working on this project . 
most of the people i 've talk to are from texas , 
so , when i heard you were from virginia i was there 's somebody different , 
and you said , i got somebody down in texas , 
i go , that the connection , right there . 
that 's it , 
i talked to one in california , 
i never asked him the other day how he was connected , 
i do n't think he was t i employee . 
most people talk to texas , 
there 's been a couple of other the people most of whom are like me that work in speech labs that are going to use data base , eventually . 
i see . 
so it was fun 
actually yesterday , i ended up talking to somebody else from the same lab i 'm in . 
is that right . 
we spent last week end in charlotte with real good friends that had just , moved back east from oklahoma , 
and she 's working on this project too , 
she 's talking on the project too 
and we got back monday 
and i got a call yesterday 
and it was her , on t i network . 
that 's neat . 
i have n't had something like that happen , 
just getting the one guy , from the lab . 
you sure have a nice town , 
my sister lives on lake , norman , 
does , she , 
that 's nice out there . 
we keep wanting to get down there and visit them over the summer 
and it never really works out . 
it 's real pretty . 
not much else we do for vacation really , 
are you a golfer ? 
me either . 
are you guys , golfers 
not too much into sports . 
except our outside , though . 
just walking 
that 's all . 
i do n't think there are any , 
traveling in my early teens down in that area 
and i 'm know real sure there are , 
no professionals . 
i was thinking i might be minor league 
there 's one in salem , salem rebels . 
salem rebels , 
buccaneers . 
buccaneers . 
i may be seeing them in a town just west of here , 
frederick has a minor league team that plays in the same league with salem 
and i think we may be seeing them this , weekend . 
is that right up there in frederick ? 
i think they 're out of town . 
that 's a nice little town actually , frederick , 
i 've never been up there . 
i 've never visited baltimore . 
i 'd like to go just sight see a little bit sometime . 
there 's some nice things in baltimore , 
the inner harbor and the aquarium and all that are very nice . 
have you ever been drug tested ? 
that 's a good question . 
i had a job i had to go get a blood test for . 
and they did a full blood screen on me , 
but they did n't call that a drug test . 
i think they checked for drugs . 
they just do n't tell you they did . 
i 've had , two or three drug tests that i had to get before i could start working at different jobs . 
i had one at t i and then one at another engineering company . 
and i do n't mind them . 
i do n't do drugs anyway . 
i guess if i did , maybe i would 
but i do n't know . 
she 's a nurse , 
and they get drug tested randomly . 
i 've , never been randomly drug tested . 
but that would probably bother me to wake up one day and find out halfway through the day that you 're going to be drug tested and you did n't know about it . 
i guess it depends on if you got something to worry about . 
i guess so . 
i guess so . 
do you think that it 's right ? 
i come from kind of a biased opinion because i 'm a therapist and a drug and alcohol counselor . 
and i 've done employee assistant work 
and i know the kind of cost businesses go through in terms of accidents , on the job that are specifically drug and alcohol related , 
and it 's in the billions of dollars every year . 
and the only way that they can prevent that is , making sure that the employees are drug and alcohol free . 
that 's true . 
if your boss is your drinking buddy or whatever you can come to work drunk and get in an accident 
and he 'll cover up for you 
and , nobody knows about it , 
but ends up costing the company lots and lots of money . 
that 's true . 
i believe , it 's right , especially for certain jobs . 
i think they should be randomly drug tested . 
i believe , full force in that . 
i do n't know that i believe every secretary in every company needs to be . 
secretaries are n't really going to cost the company that much money if they fall face forward in their typewriter or something . 
so , i do n't know . 
i 'm kind of biased , too , because i do n't do drugs 
and , so , i really do n't care one way or another if anybody wants to pull me up tomorrow and test me . because i have nothing to worry about . 
so , i guess that 's kind of biased . 
, , i think one of the problems with it is it affects a lot of other folks on the job if somebody else is impaired . 
it does . 
because generally you know it . 
you find out one way or another if somebody 's got a problem on the job . 
that 's true . 
and like you say , even if it 's just the secretary , if her work or abilities start affecting her co-workers then it 's still a problem . 
that 's true . 
but , what do you do about , the occasional user that may have gone to a party three days before 
and it 's been the whole weekend since they 've done anything 
and they happen to be tested monday morning 
and they could be fired for that ? 
that 's kind of unfair , also . 
i guess it comes with the turf . 
i guess so . 
i guess if you 're going to do it you need to suffer the consequences . 
and , in terms of drugs , they 're illegal . 
so you 're breaking the law anyway . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
probably the biggest problem with those is they do n't do a real good job of assessing for alcohol . 
that 's true . 
and that 's probably the biggest problem there is . 
i think so , 
more than drugs . 
and i know a lot of companies that will put you in an alcohol rehabilitation before they would put you in a drug rehab . 
they would pay for an alcohol 
but they do n't always pay for drug rehabilitation . 
i guess that 's one of the positive things that have come out of it , some of the employee assistance program . 
if you do test positive for something they will give you an opportunity to go get your life straight rather than to lose your job . 
that 's true . 
i , think that 's fair . 
i think the company benefits in the long run . 
that 's true . 
that 's about all i have , to say on it . 
what kind of testing do they do when you went ? 
it 's a urine test . 
urine screen . 
it was really very official . 
you have to go in a room solely by yourself , sign papers that say you were totally alone , sign papers that say this is yours , 
and you have to seal the bottle yourself and label it yourself and , all of that . 
so that they 're sure that you have n't borrowed anybody 's or something . 
that happens . 
i know , 
it 's hard to believe , 
it happens a lot . 
but i guess it does . 
there are people that pay other people , to help them out . 
i know . 
i 'm amazed , at the things people , will do . 
it is amazing . 
i guess there are people that do that . 
and those are expensive tests . 
i 'm , glad i never had to pay for one . 
it depends really on how strong a test it is . 
they 've got different degrees , as far as how far back they can check . 
i guess so . 
they got some unusual things besides blood and urine tests . 
they 've some companies that are doing hair tests . 
they 'll pull out one of your hairs 
and they can apparently test back a certain period of time . because some of the residue ends up in your hair follicles , 
how weird . 
i did n't know that . 
that 's weird . 
hair follicles are just dead protein 
and it 's apparently almost like a calendar . 
they 've got it pretty precise now . 
they can go back and look at , in terms of growth in a hair , when you used and that type of thing . 
that 's wild . 
it 's amazing the things they can find out from different things on your body . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
i 'm glad i never had to do it by giving blood . 
i ca n't stand the thought of giving blood . 
i ca n't even do it for wadley , even though it 's a good cause . 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
i did , too . 
thank you . 
what are your suggestions in making a family reunion successful . 
have a big family , i guess , 
that 's a start . 
i guess so . 
how old are you ? 
twenty-five , 
so you have been to some family reunions , perhaps . 
i just got married . 
every four years on one side of my family they plan on having my grandparents and all their brothers and sisters and then all their kids and grandkids . 
how long in advance do they let them know ? 
we plan on it , 
it 's the third weekend in august , 
so it 's every four years 
so they all know it . 
and then arrangements are made during the summer for food and who 's staying where , because a lot of people are from down here , in texas . 
and a lot of my family is in indiana . 
that 's where i 'm originally from . 
so we usually meet at my uncle 's cottage at the lake and make a couple days of it . 
that sounds like fun , 
do they all have the small children too , that come ? 
pretty much . 
so all ages . 
and there 's some my age 
and then there are some a lot younger , about four generations , i guess . 
my husband on one side has an extended family , 
and they do n't ever plan it like you do . 
i think if you can count on it every four years then people have it in mind 
so they have to start talking about it , or getting their act together about six months ahead to get in touch with everybody , because they 're rather socially active too . 
and so it seems by doing it about six months ahead , they can pretty much get everybody there . 
if they do n't they 'll say , we 're planning to go to a certain place that weekend with somebody else 
and we 're already locked in 
but six months ahead has seemed to be okay for them . 
my parents are the youngest of very large families . 
therefore , they do n't have many people left . 
i have n't known many of those people , 
but in the last few years it really has just been our immediate family 
and that 's been very nice , 
i have one sister , and three brothers 
and they 're only three out of five of us who have children . 
so we get to spend a lot of quality time with each other . 
and that 's kind of nice because my husband 's family reunions are so large , 
and they do n't see each other very often , 
we do n't really know many of them . 
that 's kind of bad . 
it really is , 
they 're fun , 
they 're a lot of fun , 
but still they 're not done on a regular basis 
and you kind of forget what happened , and who they were from the time before . 
it 's fun getting together with immediate family . 
a lot of my cousins are real close 
and we always get together during holidays and weddings and stuff like that , 
those are the ones that are in texas ? 
or you go to indiana ? 
the ones in indiana , 
where in indiana ? 
lafayette . 
lafayette , 
i do n't know where , 
i used to live in indianapolis . 
it 's a little north of indianapolis , about an hour . 
it 's very pretty country in there i think , 
it 's gorgeous . 
when is your next one scheduled now . 
it 's like , the last one was my high school graduation 
the next one was when i graduated from college , 
so i guess about two more years . 
and do you think you 'll have a baby to take back with you . 
maybe , 
i do n't know , 
maybe . 
two more years , 
i do n't know , 
probably . 
you need another milestone . 
i 've been married now for about nine months 
so that was another milestone , i guess . 
i 'm sure , 
and then all of your family probably has not met your husband . 
he 's from indiana , 
is he ? 
so they all met , 
and you 're both living in sherman . 
do you work to t i ? 
and does he ? 
he 's trying to get in med school , 
we do n't either , 
but i have a friend who is working on this project . 
are they getting all the data they need ? 
i do n't know , 
i have a hard time getting people on the telephone . 
getting through to anybody . 
sometimes i call off and on all day , 
but anyway i guess we 're supposed to be talking about family reunions are n't we . 
but i got off that . 
we 've kind of exhausted everything i guess . 
i think we have been talking probably about four and a half minutes . 
and we both look forward to going to our next reunions , i 'm sure . 
but it has been fun talking to you . 
you too . 
thank you . 
and maybe i 'll talk to you again . 
i can go ahead and start and tell you mine 
we 're from san antonio 
and that 's where i grew up , 
so i was used to the heat , out here right now , 
it gets to about high seventies 
and it gets very cold at night . 
and monterey it 's right on the coast . 
and , i do n't know if you 're familiar with california coastline , 
but we 're about a two hour drive south of san francisco , 
and it 's really nice . 
it 's a big area for people to come from the different countries , mostly japan , germany and england . 
and they usually go to carmel and vacation on the beaches , 
so it 's pretty nice year round . 
but always cool in the evenings . and warm in the summer , 
but it stays pretty cold even during the winter , for as nice as it is . 
and we usually get a fog . right about four o'clock 
and it kind of rolls in over the coast . 
and then it usually breaks back off again the next morning . 
and if you go just a little bit ways in the weather completely changes 
and it gets very hot and dry 
and the fog never makes it that far . 
but along here it 's , very different from the texas type weather . 
what 's it like down there ? 
right now we 're having the little bit of spring that we have . 
at least you 've got some . 
we do n't have many seasons here . 
it goes from winter to summer , usually . 
spring usually consists of a lot of rain . 
especially thunderstorms . 
we had one of those blow through tonight . 
that 's good . 
and i think we got the same thing in the forecast for the next two or three days . 
it 's gotten up to ninety a couple of times . 
but , basically , it 's been in the low seventies and eighties . 
that 's good . for this time of year . 
it 's not really been too bad . 
usually it sneaks on into the nineties a little earlier . 
do y'all have many bluebonnets and stuff this year ? 
quite a bit . 
the season is just about over for that , 
in fact we drove down to corpus last week 
and there were still some paint brushes and bluebonnets down along the way . 
i miss that . 
and i spoke to somebody else this morning from san antonio 
and we came back . 
what day was that , 
sunday evening , 
and they had a big rainstorm come through there , part of the same thing we 're getting now . 
. that 's real nice because i can remember two years ago that in about february the hundred degree weather started in san antonio and just continued . 
at least y'all are getting some rain up in dallas . 
i 'm glad to hear that . 
that 's the second or third year in a row that we 've had a real rainy spring . 
we had a pretty rainy fall last year , as well . 
y'all were n't getting any of the strings of the tornadoes and stuff were you ? 
we 've had a few down here , but not anything like kansas . 
but this is the season for that . 
they do pop up occasionally , around here . 
i really do n't miss all the heat there . 
i 'm getting acclimated to have the cool evenings 
so we get a bit of a relief . 
i 'm from here originally , 
so when it 's july and august , i 'm pretty well used to the , hundred degree temperatures . 
the biggest problem with the weather and the rain in this area is the soil . 
it 's that black clay soil . 
. is that what dallas is , 
it 's not sandy like most of the state is , 
so it does n't absorb the water real well . 
once it rains a little bit , it 's filled up 
and everything else just runs off , 
you know . 
san antonio has that same problem when the rains come . 
it 's a complete mess , 
everything floods , all the under passes . 
i did n't realize that dallas had that same problem . 
we have it , 
especially as rainy as it 's been in the last couple of years . 
and there 's a section in south dallas that 's had a whole lot of flooding problems because of the rain . 
we could use some rain up here . 
we 're in the bottom of the fourth year of drought , up here 
and they had a pretty good early spring 
and we got quite a bit of rain , 
but it was n't enough to offset what they lost over the last four years . 
so they 're still talking water rationing this summer , 
we had lived out west of san antonio , in castroville , 
and the water in medina lake and that area was really going down , that they were considering that they might have to do water rationing 
and i thought i 'm so glad to get out of there and get up here to the california pacific coast where it rains and everything has flowers 
and there 's no problem with water . 
and then i came here and found out they were in the four year draught . 
so i said , this is pretty much like texas . 
and it pretty much is in the middle of summer . 
they have rolling hills around here 
but they turn to golden dead grass , for the majority of the summer just because there is no water to keep them green . 
but it 's a really nice area . 
it 's just such a change from texas because i had grown up with the heat , 
like you said , you have the cold winter 
and then you have the hot summer spring . 
and to come here , it 's kind of the temperate weather all year round . 
it 's kind of like spring year round , 
and then it seems sort of like a san antonio early winter or fall , year-round . 
so it seems like we only have two springs or two seasons 
and that would be spring and fall . 
we never really get any of the other ones . 
but it 's a really nice change of pace . 
i guess i 'd prefer that . 
to the heat . 
i really do n't miss the heat . 
when you do a lot of outside running and stuff , it 's just so much easier , up here 
and you do n't have to worry about the high humidity . 
does dallas get high humidity ? 
or is it pretty dry . 
it 's pretty dry . 
we get some when it 's this rainy , 
but it 's nothing like san antonio summers , 
it 's nothing like houston . 
mumblex or east texas , is a little more humid . 
it seems like san antonio is increasing in humidity over the years , 
because i had lived in san antonio for about twenty years , 
and it just seemed like every year it just got more and more humid . 
and here it 's right by the ocean , 
but it 's not the same as corpus . 
corpus , you get that humid salty feeling in the air . 
but here the water is extremely cold , up here , 
you can lay on the beach all you want , 
but if you want to go wind suffering or diving or swimming , you have to wear a wet suit , because it 's just extremely cold 
for some reason , because of the cold ocean water , the air is always cool . 
it 's never humid or sticky or salty feeling , 
so i really like that about this area . 
and we just had n't expected it , 
we were used to , what gulf coast weather was like , when we came here to pacific coast weather . 
it 's just completely different 
and it 's much nicer . 
probably the pacific breezes make a lot of difference , 
it does 
and the air does n't feel anything like it does along the gulf coast region . 
but we like it 
so it 's a nice change . 
so we 'll be here a couple of years 
and we thought we 'll take advantage of it and see what all the pacific coast is like . 
that 's nice . 
it 's been good . 
my wife 's originally from virginia 
and we lived there for about nine months 
and that was a real change for me . 
i imagine . 
virginia gets real humid , does n't it ? 
parts do . 
we 're over in the western edge in the mountains . 
and , they have , of course , some pretty severe storms , winter storms , snow and that type of thing . 
but they 're so good about clearing the roads , that it does n't usually bother you very much . 
not like texas where everything comes to a stand still . 
their springs and summers are pretty mild , too . 
it never gets real , real hot . 
i 'll have to try that out because i had heard that north carolina was sort of like that . 
and i 've just never really been in that region of the country 
and i guess i 'm going to have to try that area sometime and see what it 's like . 
because a lot of people that are from that north carolina region really like it . 
and they get the snow , 
but they said it does n't really get messy 
and it does n't really hang around that long . 
the people i know that are from there they always miss it 
and they want to go back . 
nothing seems quite as good . 
but , anyway . 
as we were talking the weather came on 
and there 's a flash flood watch and , more rain for the next three or four days . 
i hope it moves up this way , 
but i 'm sure it wo n't . 
maybe we can send you some . 
because we could sure use it . 
you think that takes care of the time 
i think that will do it . 
i sure appreciate hearing how things are going in texas 
i enjoyed talking with you lisa , 
good luck to you . 
you , too . 
we 'll see you . 
tell me about your home . 
it 's an older home . 
it was made back in the early sixties . 
it 's a pier beam house . 
got three bedrooms , one bath 
and that just makes me scream . 
that 's pretty tough . 
what area do you live in ? 
i live in houston . 
i see . 
is that pretty typical for your area ? 
for the neighborhood i 'm in , 
this is one of the more established neighborhoods , 
that sounds real interesting . 
i live in a suburb of dallas 
and i live in the basic three bedroom , two bath home . 
so , at least , i have two bathrooms . 
that 's not so bad , 
but it 's pretty typical for the area , as well . 
i 've always been interested in older homes , personally . 
i think you can end up doing more with them . 
what about yard space ? 
do you have a big lot , or anything like that ? 
the whole lot i 'm sitting on is roughly half an acre . 
i see . 
about half of that , about a quarter acre of that , i 've got a garden . 
that 's nice . 
you know , those basic tract houses , 
like that . 
we have a very small yard 
and i do have garden , 
but it 's extremely small , 
but it seems like , though , for your area that is sort of different . 
in a big city like that most houses would be sort of like what we live in . just a basic tract house . 
in the newer neighborhoods and development communities , the houses are so close together , 
if your neighbor is having an argument you can here it blow for blow . 
that 's exactly right . 
that 's the way we are . 
one thing we have that we really enjoy here , is we have a hot tub in the back . 
so we have quite a few parties , 
and seems like everyone that lives around us , ends up hearing every conversation that goes on outside with everyone . 
so that 's true 
that is one thing that i do n't enjoy about it , is the houses are too close together . 
but it 's fine for now , 
hopefully , eventually , we 'll move in a larger home . 
the only thing that i do n't like also is the rooms are so small . 
it 's very difficult to arrange furniture and things like that , 
are your rooms in your house bigger since it 's a sixties home ? 
because it seems like then , that they built the homes much larger 
is that true ? 
and they 've got better closet space . 
new houses that i 've seen . 
that 's really it . 
that 's a plus . 
at least we do have three walk-in closets here . 
so that 's maybe not so typical , 
it helps a bunch . 
it really does , except when you have to fill them up 
and then you get those visa bills in . 
can you compare yourself to any thing around there . 
most of the neighborhood i 'm in is pretty typical . 
this whole neighborhood was built between sixty and sixty-five . 
everybody has got a pretty good size yard , 
i got probably the biggest , 
if not the biggest yard , i 've got pretty close to it , in the entire neighborhood . 
that 's nice . 
that is nice . 
you have the yard to deal with 
i enjoy that though . 
do you . 
you must have more time than i have . 
i 'm sitting out here right now . 
we had this terrible rain 
and i 'm looking at the yard and seeing how tall the grass has gotten 
i almost wish i was in an apartment or something , 
it 's rained . 
i do n't know , 
do we just terminate this 
or do you have to talk for a certain amount of time ? 
do you know ? 
after you go to somewhere between five and ten minutes , they 'll get a little master recording on , this . 
can you tell me anything else about the house . 
are you working on it ? 
do people around that area seem to do a lot of renovation ? 
this entire neighborhood , everybody keeps the places up real nice . 
that 's nice . 
the town that i came from is a older town , 
the typical homes there are early nineteen hundreds late eighteen hundreds , 
and i renovated a house there 
and that was so much fun . 
there , if you do n't live in a house that 's at least seventy-five to hundred years old you 're just nobody , practically . 
and that was a good experience for me to learn a lot of discipline 
and was considered typical for that area . 
so it was quite a change for me to come to a house like that now that 's just a very square little box 
and there 's not a whole lot you can do with it . 
living in the city has some advantages . 
that 's true . 
if given the choice , i 'm getting out . 
this town was less than ten thousand people 
and it was about sixty miles south of dallas . 
and i did n't move out of there until i was twenty-seven 
so i love the big city . 
i had lived in a rural area for so long 
so i 've enjoyed it , 
but it can get kind of tough . 
it 's like a rat race sometimes . 
that 's just something i 'll never adapt to . 
i do n't want to be a part of the rat race . 
i want to be basically just kind of left alone . 
if i want to sit around and mess with my garden , i 'll mess with my garden , 
it sounds like you enjoy working outside as well . 
very much . 
i really do enjoy that . 
but i have n't planted anything yet 
or i usually have gotten flowers coming out the gazoo , 
but i have n't done that , yet . 
i 've had finals this week . 
so i 'm just kind of trying to stick in with that , 
but since that 's over with now , maybe i can get this yard in shape . 
do you do a lot of gardening ? 
landscaping is more , than the gardening , 
in the garden i 've got my beans , peas , 
i 've got some onions out , tomatoes , 
i 'm not real sure what they 're going to do this year . 
i never have much luck with tomatoes . 
i do plant a lot of beans , because it seems like , the bugs get on them so easily 
and i have a real problem with anything like pesticides or anything like that , 
so , the only thing that i use is soap . 
i spray the plants , because they say , supposedly , that will keep the bugs off them . 
but i do n't have luck with that tomato plant , 
so i hate to spray them with anything . 
what do you do ? 
do you have any tips you could give me ? 
my favorite one is to put , dust , 
and that stuff has been around since the beginning of time , 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
my dad is a farmer 
i 've heard him talk about that forever . 
i guess it works , 
but you have to really wash your vegetables after that 
so it wo n't make you sick . 
let 's see 
what else do you do to your house ? 
i 've done some rewiring on it . 
eventually , if we stay here , i 'm going to have to rewire the entire house . 
you have enough space 
you could probably do that . 
i 've talked about adding at least one more room and definitely adding another bath on . 
i would think so if you only have one bathroom for three bedrooms , 
that 's tough . 
do you not have a half bath . 
not even a half bath . 
that 's rough . 
the house that i used to live in had one bath and a half . 
and that was even just with two people . 
that was a pain . 
the only thing that saves it , with the schedule i work and the schedule my wife works , we 're getting ready to go to work at totally different times . so that . it 's not like we 're tripping over each other in the morning . 
that 's good . 
that could account for a lot of marital problems . i think . 
you get to know each other very well if you have to share a bathroom . 
it does n't work if you 're trying to shave and she 's trying to put her eyeliner on and , you 're both fighting over the mirror . 
that 's right . 
it does not make for a happy situation . 
that 's true . 
do you have any children ? 
i 've got one . 
one child . 
and they enjoy where they 're living ? 
he 's nine months old . 
so he does n't know . 
i guess , he 's a big help out in your garden . 
he likes to dig around a little bit . 
his mother comes in and says , why did you let him play in the dirt , 
i guess he 's enjoying himself . 
that 's right . 
it 's healthy , 
why not . 
he was eating the dirt , 
i would n't worry about it . 
it wo n't hurt them . 
i was a big dirt eater , supposedly , when i was a child 
and i turned out okay , 
so , do n't worry about it . 
just let him enjoy himself . 
you think that you want to move away from the big city ? 
i was raised up in a town that was about ten thousand people . 
so you 're just the opposite from me . 
you want to go back to that , 
after we got married we ended up moving to the houston area . 
are you from texas ? 
you are . 
that 's true 
houston , in itself , is a pretty tough place . 
ready to talk ? 
i guess so . 
i want to talk about our family budget , and the times that it 's worked and the times that it has n't worked and , give you a general description of it 
and you can help me out a little 
bit . 
tell me how yours works . 
i introduced you a little bit to it , a few minutes ago , when i said that we 're on the east coast now . 
we both decided we wanted to move to north carolina . 
we looked at our budget , 
and so , what we did was draw up a budget that we thought was realistic . 
and so , we had to make some adjustments 
because we really are kind of looking for something that we want to do and he wants to do that 's satisfactory , 
and we 've been here seven months 
and he 's still has n't hit up on anything permanently . 
so , you see , 
that throws the budget out of whack real fast . 
we actually planned for about one year . 
because , , it never occurred to us that it would take seven months . 
that was smart . 
and what we did was just decide how we had been spending our money before , 
and then we put that on the computer 
and then we took about three months and adjusted , where we could come down and where we did n't want to come down , 
and we really lessened our living expenses , more than what we thought we would . 
that 's great . 
did you have a special program on your computer to do that 
just our own design . 
our first fifteen years or eighteen years of being married nothing worked . 
we spent too much money , until our children went to college , 
do you all have a budget ? 
we 've been married for five and a half years 
and we started out without kids and found it much easier to save and used to do a lot , more fun kinds of things and did really have a real strict , budget 
when we first got married we were in graduate school 
and we were just dirt poor . 
then when we got our first jobs after about a year of marriage we decided we 'd bank my salary so we could buy a house . 
so , we virtually did that for about two years , which worked real well , and then moved from california where we realized we could never buy a house anyway no matter how much we saved , and moved to texas , bought a house immediately which , of course , is now devalued with the housing market , 
wonderful . 
so , i do n't know if we did a good thing to buy a house or not 
but at least we 've got a place to live . 
three and a two year old . 
that threw our budget really out of whack too . 
an we have been just forced to budget much more because i quit working to be home with the kids . 
i do n't know , 
we 've tried different times , 
we 've done a survey of taking the past three months of where all the money went . 
and we really do n't spend on anything much of a luxury or anything at all , 
but it seems like there 's times when we just have to get out where we 'll go and get a baby-sitter and we 'll go and we 'll blow fifty , sixty dollars in one night going out to eat , going to a show or doing something . 
for it to work though , you have to do something . 
that 's the hard part because when we sit down to make it , we try to make it real spartan and real narrow so we can put a certain amount in savings every week 
and then it 's not really that realistic 
because we do find that we want to go and do something or splurge for birthday for somebody 
or we even do things real frugally for the kids , 
of course not . 
and they 're both boys 
so they just 
. but that 's the hardest part for us is that it 's really budgeting and some extra things that are more nonessential items . 
i found that , the place that it was harder for me to stick to a budget was not where we were concerned , but where maybe our friends were concerned and our relatives and parents . 
we tended to want to keep on giving lavish , gifts as , we had done before . 
and i really believe that if you 're going to cut down on yourself , you need to cut down somewhat on your friends . 
on your friends , 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
we both have older cars 
and something will come up and wind up having to spend a thousand dollars on the car in two months or something , 
and a lot of things like that really are hard to plan for . 
i really do , 
i think you have to budget those things though . 
kind of put in a certain amount per year , 
you 're going to have . 
but if you do n't spend it , it should be in your bank account at the end of the month . 
let 's see , 
i forget which way we do it . 
we do n't list all the deductions 
and then we get more money back at the end of the year , 
you do n't want the government to spend your money . 
that 's what my husband said , 
so this last year he changed it , of course , 
we did n't get nearly as much back 
and it was . 
better find another way of saving money . 
but i do realize that , that is realistic for some people , 
and it was for us , for many years . 
and if that 's the only way that , it will make you save and have a little nest egg at the end of the year 
then doggone it 
that 's what you should do . 
because we do n't miss it , 
we really do n't , when it 's just taking out of the paycheck and stuff , 
but we 're trying to put a little money away for the kids because we can envision the expenses for college already eighteen years away or whatever . 
i was just reading an article in a north carolina paper today where a high school student obtained over two hundred thousand dollars worth of scholarships for herself by sitting up at night and typing letters of applications to universities . 
she was third out of a class of two hundred and twenty , 
so , it can be done . 
i guess , 
where there 's a will , there 's a way ? . 
that 's fantastic . 
i have enjoyed talking to you . 
i enjoyed talking to you too , 
and do n't spend any money this weekend . 
i know 
we 'll have to stay home and mow the yard . 
i pay a good deal of taxes because i make a fair amount of money , 
and the taxes that i pay as a general statement , i feel i get my money 's worth for . 
i guess i am sure that i feel that , in general , though the allocation of the taxes in certain areas , is n't correct . 
i 'm sure that probably every person in this country would agree with you on that . because everybody has a different idea of where the money should go . 
there 's been and extraordinary amount of money spent there , 
and i 'm not really sure that we 've gotten our money 's worth there regardless of the outcome of the desert shield situations . 
i guess my particular beef is that having participated in the military off and on over the years of being called back and things of that nature , i 've found that there 's an extraordinary amount of waste . 
i take that as a given in any military operation 
no argument here . 
why i 'm a little concerned about today is that this rather quick victory in the , mideast over the iraqis might lead us into a false sense of security that we can do that against any other foe . 
i do n't know what other foe that would be , 
but i 'm just getting nervous again , now hearing the voices come up that there has to be increased expenditures in that area . 
of course a lot of missiles and things were expended in the course of fighting the war , 
and the inventory 's going to have to be restocked , 
i work for t i , 
and one of the things we were told is they had eleven thousand harm missiles which t i is the sole supplier for , 
and they used up two thousand of them in the war , 
so they 're going to have to do another contract to restock that , to get ready in case something else is needed . 
let 's see , 
two thousand out of eleven thousand , that 's about a little over twenty per cent . 
i should imagine that , that would be to keep it at those levels that were originally appropriated when the soviet threat was perceived as being a greater one . 
i do n't think there 's very much of a threat there today . 
i do worry about what nuclear weapons are left in their territory over there , and who 's controlling them , 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
i do n't know what amount of , our hardware would stop some fanatic from doing anything that would be irrational . 
of course now , we used up twenty per cent of that inventory , in a matter of just a few weeks , 
and t i also makes the missile , which was the t v laser guided bombs 
and , a big percentage of that was expended , as well , 
what is the name of that ? 
it 's called paveway . 
and a big percentage of that was used up during that conflict also . 
so those are two areas in which t i stands to gain some short term business to restock that . 
and that was an area that i perceive as not being the best expenditure for the amount of dollar that we 're taxed for , 
in the area of defense , 
or perhaps we have paid too much there , 
i do n't know , 
and it 's a cliche , 
but i see it myself , 
i see where the infrastructure is sort of breaking down , the roads , the highways . 
no doubt . 
i do n't know , 
i 'm familiar with some upbeat school areas , 
so i do n't totally agree with the great expenditure of effort and time there , 
but i guess overall , because i guess i 'm not associated with what ghetto schools and , rural school systems are like , i should imagine that would take an enormous expenditure . 
as a matter of fact , in texas we 've had our school funding system declared unconstitutional by a state judge , 
basically , what it does , is it takes extra money from the more affluent school districts , that come from local taxes and send them to other parts of the state , that are not so affluent . 
they do n't have a broad based income tax that funds the educational system , 
or is it all funded out of local taxes ? 
to give you some perspective , this town that i had lived in for sometime in nineteen eighty-three was funded sixty-five per cent by state funds . 
then we had a number of education reforms , that the legislature said , we got to do this , 
we got to do this , 
we got to do this , 
but , they forgot to put in the state budget the money to pay for it , 
and they dumped it all on the local school districts . 
sounds like the way the federal and state system works now . 
so what ended up happening was a shift . 
we went to sixty-five per cent state funding to sixty-five per cent local funding in a matter of four years . 
do you mean a complete reversal ? 
because they ca n't raise that money in those poorer districts , 
complete . 
it 's all shifted to local districts , 
and now , even the money that 's been raised for the local districts is going to be siphoned off and sent to other parts of the state . 
that 's right , 
and i have no problem , with a certain minimum level , that 's a standard that everybody ought to be able to have , 
but , i am opposed to , any attempts to restrict local communities from taxing themselves above that to provide above the minimum . 
i see what you 're saying . 
i guess i am a strong and staunch supporter of some subsidy for any forms of education . 
by that i mean , i 'm a product myself , 
i have a background of getting my college education through the g i bill . 
so did i . 
my masters , anyway . 
but when i look at it to me it does n't really make any difference . 
it was a marvelous opportunity that i could n't have done , 
i do n't think i would have gone on , unless i had that financial easement made possible . 
that 's right . 
i do n't even know if you have to perform community service , 
at least what i read , is that some younger people feel that education is priced out of their , budget . 
i know in the state of florida just today the legislature adjourned , 
to me it does n't sound like a lot of money , 
but i guess it would be for fifteen hundred dollars a year . 
they went from eleven to fifteen hundred , 
and for an out of state student the tuition went up twenty-five per cent . 
i do n't know what that would be . 
they had to raise community college taxes here , a few years ago . 
fees that fund these things , i guess that 's trickled down to the states 
and , the states now do n't have enough money 
so they must charge fees . 
i 'm not too sure of that reasoning . 
but i guess i do n't know whether i pay too much taxes . 
people pay , a great deal in taxes , 
in germany or in england in some cases people in my income level , at least , allege that they pay up to fifty-five percent of their gross income in taxes . 
i can believe that . 
it costs me money to leave the country , some sort of a tax to leave the country , some sort of an airport departure tax a sales tax which is getting to quite high levels , 
i 'm not sure that i 'm not up fairly close to that . 
i guarantee you , you 'd be paying a lot more in taxes if , the democrats had more say . 
you really think so ? 
i really do . 
i feel that in the last ten years my taxes have gone up , 
they have n't gone down . 
i pay quite a bit more taxes 
everybody is . 
but that 's been a republican government for the last ten years . 
what they 've been able to do is slow down the rate of increase . to keep it from becoming even more obnoxious . 
this has been really interesting , 
and i 've enjoyed our talk . 
i guess i just push something here . 
push one again , 
we just say 
and that 's it . 
just hang up . 
don , good talking with you . 
nice talking with you , too . 
we 're going to talk about our lawn and garden chores , 
do you have either one ? 
i do n't do anything with the lawn really , 
but i do gardening , both flowers and vegetable gardening . 
do you . 
we have enough property that we can have a little bit of a garden 
and that 's fun , 
actually wally 's had one even when we have n't had big yard because we enjoy that . 
we love fresh vegetables in the summer , 
and it 's just one of the things i enjoy doing . 
so do i . 
i had rather be outside than inside any day . 
so would i . 
do you work during the week outside the home ? 
i do . 
so i manage to fit in my gardening chores afterward , 
i work for a school system 
so i 'm able to do that because i get home a little earlier , 
and i can still do some sorts of things 
or you sneak out in the morning after daylight savings time starts and with your cup of coffee and see if it has grown overnight . 
i unfortunately am not gardening this year . 
i love gardening , 
in fact , i was prevented about thirty years ago with a life membership from the richmond , virginia counsel of garden clubs . 
and it was n't because i was so good , 
but i organized a very large garden club , 
that 's wonderful . 
it 's always something that seems so odd to me 
and you really feel you can accomplish something 
and to help other people too , that 's neat . 
it has really nothing to do with actual gardening or flower arranging or anything like that , 
it was just that i happened to organize this group , that was about seventy people . 
that 's wonderful . 
those numbers were great 
i think it sounds good . 
i 've never belonged to a garden club because i 've always been more interested in just doing what i can do on my own , 
i 've never had , the time really to get involved in the organized sort of format , 
but i know people who do it and enjoy it very much . 
and actually , i think that most women 's garden clubs that i 've been aware of in the past are only flowers , 
what i would like , 
we 've spent the last twenty years in oklahoma . 
just moved to north carolina , 
and we were originally , of course , from this area , from virginia , 
in oklahoma , it 's the men 's garden clubs that i would have wanted to join . 
and you would have because they do all kinds of gardening and not just flowers like women do . 
there are n't men 's gardening clubs in this area that i know of , 
they 're women . 
and usually they 're the tea type things where they have a little luncheon 
and they do their thing . 
but flowers are primarily the emphasis whereas i enjoy vegetable gardening almost more , 
i do 
flowers sort of look pretty 
i think so too . 
but i really like to do the vegetables . 
and i have spent the last ten years being a florist . 
being what ? 
being a florist . 
what a wonderful thing . 
it was nice , 
it was exhilarating for many years . 
many of those . 
tell me what 's in your garden this year , since i do n't have one . 
in fact , i was going to go out today to buy some plants so i could put them in , 
i always have geraniums 
and then i have a shady area that i need to be concerned about not getting something that has to have sun , 
so i 've discovered that impatiens that tried and true turns out to be about the best thing to use there along with coleus . because they look pretty in my front garden , 
they look sort of like impatiens , 
and they 're better for the sun areas . 
and , of course mine are old theory ordinary flowers , marigolds and that sort of thing . 
do you have trouble with red spider on marigolds ? 
i do n't . 
i do n't know , 
maybe this climate is a little better . 
but in the vegetable garden we grow usually , what 
our favorite is something called white half runner green beans , 
is n't that funny , 
so is my favorite . 
you know why , 
because i grew up in north carolina , 
and that was my mother 's favorite bean 
she always grows five different varieties , 
but that 's the kind that produces the best . 
i think it has the best flavor . 
and they 're wonderful , 
and i pick them when they 're very young and have very little string and then just steam them a little bit , 
my mother picks them when they 're fat 
and she cooks them for an hour with some fat backs , , 
i like them in between . 
and they 're good both ways . 
i like them in between . 
the flavor is better in between . 
size wise 
my mother does n't think they have any flavor the way i cook them . 
and i know i love them , 
that 's the yankee way . 
but i think , that 's another vegetable . 
of course . 
i love them that way 
it is . 
they 're two different vegetables that way , 
in fact , my mother , who is eighty-six years old , canned over a hundred quarts of half runners last year . 
my mother will be ninety this year 
and she lives in western north carolina 
and she would do that if we did n't tell her that she 'd better not . 
but she does n't have that big a garden , 
but she has a bigger one than i do . 
and i have four children , 
and she tends to it herself ? 
is n't that wonderful . 
it is , 
it 's great . 
it 's really her joy 
and i suppose that 's why i enjoy gardening , because growing up with it . 
i think so too . 
we also grow yellow and green squash much to my children 's chagrin , 
and we grow a lot of tomatoes , 
there 's just no replacement for fresh grown tomatoes . 
so , we enjoy that , 
i have been trying to grow watermelon and cantaloupe and get teased by my family 
but i actually was successful for the last two years , 
i 'm going to do it again . 
bet you showed them . 
that 's right . 
and we grow broccoli . 
and i have been very happy about the new way of controlling the , worm that gets in broccoli by using the bacillus thuringiansis which is the little , 
in fact , that 's what they use for gypsy moth , 
i do n't know if you have had that problem there or not . 
but it 's a problem that 's moving south from the new england area . 
and they devastate the trees 
so the government sprays , two , three times in the spring when the caterpillars are coming along 
because what they do , this , bacillus the worms ingest it 
and it expands in their , digestive tract 
and they die . 
so , that 's the same technique that is for any of the other little varmints that get in vegetables 
that 's really very nice because it 's a non toxic way of handling the problem . 
we could really talk gardening a long time . 
i 'm enjoying hearing you so much . 
it 's nice hearing you talk 
and i wish you good luck , 
have you just recently moved to charlotte ? 
october . 
so that 's not very long . 
so 
the weather is wonderful , 
i love it . 
that 's great , 
that 's great . 
it is just terrific , 
rains a little too often . 
i hope you have an opportunity to garden again . 
i think so , 
i have a little spinach . 
are you on any kind of regular exercise plan ? 
i do aerobics step classes and toning classes , 
step classes ? 
what 's that ? 
it 's a new form i think , 
it 's like low impact aerobics 
instead of hopping and jumping you just step 
you have a step 
and you literally step up on the step and move your arms , 
it 's new , 
it 's fun . 
i probably could n't do that because of my knee . 
bad knee . 
every once in a while i play tennis , 
i 'm not too great at it 
but i try to play , . 
i 've kind of gotten out of the habit myself , 
i guess what i do now is i play softball , right now , 
right now i 'm on two teams 
so it 's four nights a week . 
so i enjoy it 
instead of having to join a health club and make myself go out there , i went and bought a weight bench , and do n't ever hardly use it . 
i need to make myself do that . 
i 'm about to graduate from college 
and so this past couple months have been really hectic 
so i have n't really gone , 
and i 've really been faithful these past two months of going to the health club and working out 
what school you going to ? 
i 'm at east carolina . 
but 
my step classes and toning is about the only thing 
what 's toning ? 
is that lifting weights ? 
it 's isolated movements for certain muscles groups , 
isometrics , stuff like that . 
you can do it with weights if you wanted to 
but you leave out of there 
usually the next morning , if you have n't done it in a while , you wake up the next morning you 're , 
what did i do to myself 
and your whole body aches . 
i know i 'm looking forward to getting back into getting into shape , 
i feel like i 'm out of shape 
but i feel guilty for not going , because i 'm so used to going for three or four years now . 
i , stayed in pretty good shape during school . 
i played baseball , all the way through 
and working out six hours a day , usually six or seven days a week that kind of , kept us all in pretty good shape , . 
but ever since i got out of school just jumped right into the job 
and , i guess the job that i 'm in it 's stuff to stay on any kind of a regular schedule . 
because i work some weird hours and do some traveling . 
i do n't know if your campus was anything like ours , 
but our parking lot 's in one end of the campus 
and the buildings are all at the other end , 
i did n't have much of a problem 
i guess i went to a small baptist school 
and we had about maybe thirteen hundred people . 
so , it 's pretty small . 
but i usually get in at least a couple of miles at work just walking around the plant . 
i live on the second story apartments 
so i walk up and down stairs all day long , 
we 've got a one story house now 
that 's enough . 
i guess i push the lawn mower around 
that 's , fairly regular . 
that 's one of the exercise , now . 
i , would like to start running . 
i 've never been much of a runner 
but i want to start , 
i want to run 
but i do n't know if i 'll be able to do it . 
just , because you do n't like to or because you wo n't be able to . 
, i 'm afraid i wo n't be able to . 
if you do aerobics you should n't have any problem running . 
i hope not . , 
we ride our bike occasionally but again not nearly often enough . 
i do n't even own a bike , 
i think the last time i was on a bike , 
i do n't know , 
i 'd be , afraid i probably forgot how to ride a bike . 
you ca n't forget how to ride a bike . 
i 'm trying to think of other things that i do that will be considered exercise , , 
there are things i should do . 
i went to a junior college for a couple of years and played baseball and then transferred , 
one semester the whole team was required to take aerobics 
and the next semester they were required to do weight lifting . 
we had it for course credit , 
but still it was pretty high impact stuff , . 
definitely are tough classes . 
most of the guys were all in one class 
so she 'd kind of lay it on occasionally . 
eight o'clock in the morning , was our class . 
wake up . 
now they have those exercise bands now that are better that you can use for toning instead of using a weight , 
you have bands , 
i do n't know , if you 've seen them , 
they 're weird . 
i think my wife has some . 
they 're just made of different kinds of rubber , 
or sand even some of them , 
they 're elastic 
so i guess it would n't be sand . 
and there 's some that the different colors denotes how much the tension they are and how easy they are to move . 
i know there 's purple , gray , and green . 
and some of them are real short 
and they 're the ones that are the tough ones to use . 
but those classes i enjoy . 
i think with the aerobic classes you have to get an instructor that 's fun . 
if you do n't have one that 's fun , and not acting like she 's enjoying what she 's doing , the class is not going to get out what they should get out of the class . 
are you going to get into instructing ? 
what are you studying ? 
i 'm an interior design major , . 
not in the , aerobic instructor type field . 
i could never do that , . 
i 'd rather just be the student , . 
and occasionally i do the weights at the health club but low weights just ... 
some of the nautilus equipment that i started seeing at the one that we used to go to was really interesting , 
they really know how to isolate each of the different muscle groups , with those things 
i do n't know 
to me that was just too much of a hassle to get all geared up and take the time to drive over there , and workout and then drive back . 
i just noticed at our health club they will put on these computerized machines , 
and you set a speed on it and the weight 
and it makes you do it . 
if you 're going too slow it will say , my grandmother could do this faster than you . and stuff like , a turtle goes faster 
and the whole place can hear what this machine is telling you . 
a little negative reinforcement there while you 're going . 
so do stuff like that 
but just i 've never used those machines 
i just use the regular machines and the free weights like little five pound hand weights and eight pound hand weights . 
just to do some bicep , tricep exercises . 
sit-ups , of course . 
that 's where i 'm really starting to get noticeable , 
i 'm just getting real soft in the middle . 
i think that 's number one problem with everyone . 
i have n't really started to put on a lot of weight 
i guess i probably put on about nine or ten pounds , since i stopped playing , which was about four years ago . 
but i just notice myself just real soft 
and i 'm sure i do n't have near the endurance that i did , . 
but i keep saying i intend to get back into it . 
i just need to , put the old nose to the grindstone , 
i guess at that point it would turn into a task , , 
i do n't consider it fun doing that , 
i plan on getting back , once i graduate next weekend . 
next weekend ? 
next weekend . 
one week , . 
then i plan to get right back into it . 
it does a lot for you i think . 
makes you feel a lot better . 
there 's no question the end result is great 
when i was playing ball we could run all day and not be tired . 
and you feel so much better , about yourself . 
just that you do n't feel guilty when you eat that cake after dinner , . 
i still do n't , 
but . that 's a problem . 
thank you . 
it was nice talking to you . 
you too . 
what changes do you think have taken place in the last generation ? 
i guess the biggest one is number of women in the work force . 
few are basically staying home and being homemakers , and raising kids exclusively . 
i grew up in sixties and early seventies 
and my mom did n't work at all when i was growing up . 
she did n't start working until i was well into high school . 
it 's a luxury item for mothers to be home with their kids . 
mine taught kindergarten 
i guess her schedule was shorter 
so she was always home , 
always home by the time you got home . 
that statistic has been growing every year 
it 's something around sixty , sixty-five percent or so now . 
i 'm not sure what the future holds for that 
it seems that there 's a grass roots effort or whatever going on 
i , clean houses part-time , 
and almost all the people that i clean for , believe it or not , are mothers that do n't work . 
that 's unusual . 
i think it 's kind of a new movement 
women have come into the work force in the last twenty , thirty years 
and now they 're wanting to go back to the old days where women stayed home with the kids and try to give the kids quality time . 
and i think you 're going to see a lot more women choosing to not work after they have a baby . 
a lot of the women that i work for have husbands who are vice-presidents of companies 
and i think with this , it seems like it 's more the upper-class people , 
i do n't see it as much in my situation where i do n't have children yet , 
but ideally i would like to be able to stay home with my kids . 
but realistically i 'm realizing that 's probably not going to be possible for middle-class people to be able to live just on one income . 
that is tough . 
we 're looking at that now , 
my wife 's about six months along . 
i think it 's going to be a luxury item to be able to stay home with your kids . 
it 's going to kind of go along with the b m w in the driveway or in the garage or whatever . 
and the quarter of a million dollar home or whatever . 
i 'm surprised that the main people you work for are women that do stay home . 
i would think it would be women that were working full-time . 
believe it or not though all the women that stay home are real busy when they are home . 
they 're real active in volunteer work . 
one of the women is real active with muscular dystrophy . and does a lot of work with them on a volunteer basis 
but it 's almost like a job , 
she just does n't get paid for it . 
. i guess that 's good that they 've got something to keep them active . 
when your wife has her baby , is she going to stay home 
or is she going to , go back to work ? 
we 're going to try and have her stay home , for as long as possible . 
what do you think ? 
i would like to be able to do that . 
we think it 's that important 
and i kind of hope that the trend goes back in that direction . 
i 'm a counselor and a therapist , 
and i work with adolescents , 
and i see some of the problems the kids have when they do n't have a real good family structure . 
i see a difference in even the generation before me were mom was like june cleaver or whatever , 
where the attitudes were a lot different . 
there was n't a lot of the drugs and alcohol and a lot of the things that are going on in today 's society , 
i think morally it seems like people were a lot better back then as far as higher standards . 
the husbands ' roles are almost nonexistent in family anymore in terms of being the father figure 
and with women working so much they 're kind of pulled out of it too . 
so , kids are raised around their friends and by the media . 
that 's true . 
and that 's contributed , 
and i think you 're going to see a lot more of that in the future . 
maybe that 's contributed to a lot of the problems that we see all the time , 
there are a lot of jobs that are coming about in computers at home , and those types of things , that would at least in some ways bridge the gap . 
i think that in the future the family unit as it once was known , is going to be nonexistent . 
what do you think ? 
do you think there 's going to be still a family unit 
do you think that the trend is going more towards single parenting ? 
the balance 
the divorce rate keeps hovering around fifty percent or so 
and it got higher than that for a while . 
that 's hard to say . 
families are such a strange configuration anymore . 
i grew up about the same time you did , 
and back in those times we pretty much were taught how to be responsible . 
nowadays it 's not the case , 
kids are bombarded with all kinds of junk 
and one of the reasons is because there 's so much more income in the family with both parents working . 
they get bombarded with junk 
and they do n't have to do anything around the house . 
the bigger trend called the boomerang kids where they move out for a while and they come back , 
and you got twenty and thirty year olds who are living at home with mom and dad 
you create a bigger family , generation after generation but not really on purpose . 
so . it 's not a real functional situation anyway . 
so i do n't know that that trend 's going to change the single parent type families 
i think that eventually the family unit 's just not going to even exist anymore . 
like you said the divorce rate is getting so high that i think there 's going to be more single parent families than there are two parent families . 
that 's pretty sad . 
it is , 
i guess unless there 's a major swing in the change of what 's important to people probably keep going downhill . 
and , i do n't know 
we feel that we can make it on one income 
it may be tough 
but we may have to give up on some things . 
i think in the long run though your child will benefit from that . 
and it will make the strain worthwhile . 
i think so too . 
i need to go ahead and wrap it up . 
it was really nice talking to you . 
i 've enjoyed it , stephanie . 
and thanks a lot . 
go ahead . 
what kind of books do you like to read ? 
i like all kinds of books . 
mostly , i like true life , , documentaries or real stories about real people and that kind of stuff or dramas in real life . 
and i also like romantic novels . 
i like readers digest , believe it or not . 
so do i . 
i usually read that from cover to cover . 
i like it because there 's a little bit of everything in it . 
that kind of a thing . 
as far as real novels , i have n't gotten into shakespeare or any of that type of thing . 
i wish i had in some senses 
but i do n't have time really as much as i would like to get into that kind of thing . 
how about you ? 
i like , like you said , real life , 
i like biographies of people 's lives especially athletes , 
for some reason it seems to interest me people that make a big comeback or orel hershiser , things like that . 
i read a lot of bicycling magazines . 
i mainly look at the pictures and stuff , 
but they usually have some good articles in it . 
but i do n't know 
i have n't really found any romance type stuff i like to read . 
i 'm more , nonfiction . 
i have n't found a lot of fiction books that i really like 
but not to say i would n't , 
eventually . 
what was the last book you read ? 
let me think , 
i tell you 
i have n't read a book in a long time . 
i ca n't even really remember . 
i think it was a romantic novel by danielle steel or one of those . 
honestly . 
i do n't do as much reading , like i say , as i would like to . 
working a lot of hours at work 
and then , of course , we have a home 
i know . 
a lot time is spent doing things as far as the yard work or housework or that type of thing . 
i set a goal for myself to read a book a month this year which is about eleven more books than i would have read last year , 
but so far i 've only read two books 
and so i 'm not doing very well 
but i do crafts too , 
so it 's hard , 
if i have a minute that 's what i do . 
i find it 's real hard , 
i let newspapers stack up and magazines stack up , if i do n't really set aside a time to look or read them . 
and that 's like myself 
i miss it , because i really find it a very relaxing hobby too . 
i really do 
and i do n't know 
it seems like you can get lost in a book , 
it 's like an escape for me . 
i do n't know about you . 
if i 'm really interested in what i 'm reading hours can go by 
and i look up at the clock and say , . 
in fact , i 'd rather read sometimes than watch t v . 
i would too . 
kind of train your mind . 
but i think you get out of the habit , like you say , 
have you ever read or heard of the book this present darkness ? 
that was one of the books i read this year , 
and it 's really fast paced and intense . 
it is a fiction book 
it was one of the best i read , 
it was real good , 
just hurry up and go through without putting down . 
that 's the other problem i have . 
if i start into something and i really enjoy what i 'm reading , then i have a terrible time getting away from it too . 
i 'll stay up until two or three o'clock in the morning because i 'm so engrossed in it 
and then before you know it , it 's time to get up and go to work . 
that type of thing . 
i do n't know 
i 'm kind of a nut when it comes to stuff like that . 
even if i 'm doing something like an afghan , if i 'm close to the end , sometimes i 'll , do the same thing . 
i do n't know what you would call it , 
maybe i have a problem . 
i 'm sure it 's fast or something . 
it 's terrible , 
i really like books that you can get into 
and that 's that . 
i know what you mean . 
i like reading late at night right before i go to bed sometimes 
i just sleep better or something . 
you do 
you kind of get relaxed , 
that 's true . 
i have a lot of craft books that i have too and magazines . 
i like people those things that are about real people . 
and i like to read about people who made a success of their lives . 
what book have you read that is along those lines , that was really good ? 
to give you specific titles 
i ca n't . 
like i say , have n't done it in such a long time . 
do you know who it was about ? 
it was by american business 
what the heck was his name , 
i 'm trying to think . 
paroe , 
and it was more like , 
it was tapes and things that they had about him , too . 
how he started out as just a salesman 
and now he 's multimillionaire and that type of thing , 
and how you have to be aggressive and really want something for yourself and that type of stuff . 
it 's up to you whatever happens in your life . 
it 's not someone else , 
you have to do it . 
and i find that fascinating that people can do that kind of thing . just make up their minds that that 's it , have this one direction . 
and then do it . 
do it . 
i ca n't , 
i 'm not that focused on something . 
i 'm off in all directions . 
and i 'm not a planner which i wish i was . 
kind of off the wall . 
if someone says , do you want to do this tonight and i got a mountain of things to do , it 's okay , 
we do it . 
. that 's all right . 
i know , 
i know , 
but i wish i was more the other way . 
you 're more fun though . 
you 're not ridged ? 
i like it that way though . 
i do n't want to change that part of me . 
that 's good . 
that 's funny , 
even though i admire someone who is n't , like i am and i wish i could be more that way 
there may be some schools you could read about and learn . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
how many people do you supervise ? 
about twenty . 
that 's not bad . 
that 's not bad at all . 
do you like your job ? 
sometimes . 
sometimes more than others . 
but 
i do . 
that 's important . 
i 've been there about three years . 
do you have a family ? 
i just got married last year 
and most of my family 's in indiana . 
so , i 've only been in texas three years . 
do you like it ? 
i do . 
i love the weather down here . 
i loved abilene too . 
that 's what i liked , too , is the weather . 
i know . 
except for tornados . 
they have storms here 
they do . 
and it 's so surprising how it just happens . 
unpredictable . 
were you here during the hailstorm two years ago ? 
i 've been up here about three . 
we were down there from eighty-five to eighty-six , 
part of eighty-four to eighty-six i should say . 
i had thirty-three hundred dollars damage done on my car , 
a lot of people had their cars totaled just from hail . 
i think state farm went bankrupt . just about . 
i know the whole situation is bad up here , 
we 're having a terrible time with the recession . 
it 's not good at all . 
i know things are pretty booming down there . 
i heard they sold johnson city though . 
and colorado springs . 
and colorado springs ? 
i talked to a guy on the phone on this the other day 
and he was telling me about it . 
they just sold it . 
amazing . 
closed up and moved down to mckinney . 
that 's good . 
at least they kept the business part of it . 
it 's scary though i 'm telling you . 
i know . 
i do n't know , 
and the other part of this thing was , how do you feel that this influences family . 
how do i feel what ? 
i feel like it 's important for young children to read too . 
and what you read to them . 
when my children were younger , of course , 
they were all married and grown 
and i have grandchildren now , 
, i read to them a lot . 
that 's good . 
and i think they 've all developed kind of an interest in reading also . 
i 'm not saying they read all the right things 
but they do read . where a lot of people do n't have any interest in it at all , 
and i think it 's important , 
because , even today where people are so illiterate and they go off to school and really nothing happens they do n't learn anything . 
it 's because they ca n't read . 
it 's really surprising how many people graduate from high school , that i work with 
i get memos all the time across my desk 
and things are misspelled 
and , it 's pretty sad . 
it 's unbelievable , 
is n't it ? 
a lot of people that work for me that ca n't even spell or read . 
exactly , 
and i think that that 's why reading is so important , 
i do n't , 
guess we got our first credit card back in the early seventies when , i first got married 
was a visa card . issued out of a liberty bank in oklahoma city , 
because my sister worked at some bank americard center there . 
so , we were still in college 
and had she not worked there i 'm not sure that i would have qualified . 
they 've come in handy over the years . 
and they have become , also a real bother sometimes . 
tell me about it . 
especially if you catch yourself short on cash or if you 're on vacation , it 's just easier to put everything on a card . 
and i find if you 're not careful you wind up a month or so , staring those bills in the face 
and you go i do n't remember doing all that stuff 
and it adds up . 
they add up quick . 
so , sometimes especially traveling with t i everything goes on american express , 
and it makes it a whole lot easier for bookkeeping . 
but as far as personal life goes , i guess , i really try to use them as little as possible , 
i kind of like having them for gasoline purchases . 
we like to keep one on hand just for emergencies . 
but other than that i guess over the years tried to avoid the national credit card syndrome , of just putting everything on there day after day after day 
and then you really get socked to it , if you do n't watch it . 
how do you look at counting credit cards ? 
we just quit using them . 
and they got us in trouble , 
we took a loan and paid them all off . 
we keep , one gas card and , visa just in case there 's an emergency or , something 
but other than that we do n't use them anymore . 
if you got a bunch of cards , you get a bunch of bills every month 
and for some strange reason those people think they need to get paid . 
i know , 
is n't that funny ? 
maybe they 're not really concerned about getting paid 
know if you do n't , then they 're adding on eighteen , nineteen , twenty percent . 
sometimes , it 's twenty-two percent interest . 
and then some of them add late fees on it , if they do n't get paid 
i guess that 's one of the motivations behind the , american express card with t i , 
with the american express card from t i , there 's no late fee , 
there 's no interest rate , 
you either pay the thing off 
or they come get it . 
and it 's turned into personnel 
and they come get you . 
so , they 've got quite a bit more motivation to get paid then , some of the others do . 
but that 's the one that your call center manager sees every month , 
so , you 're a little bit more careful about what you put on that , even though you can use it however you want to . 
can you use that one for personal use ? 
you can ? 
you can use it like any other card , 
i see . 
and who knows how many people , are looking at those bills that come in , and those statements , 
you 're not the only one . 
, is that okay , that those people see what it is that you are buying , 
and most of the time it is . 
but , most of the others i 've sent back 
all you get is card offers , 
i 've got three card offers now from gas companies and visa gold and some , , other bank , 
citibank is always sending the visa stuff out . 
and i usually just throw them away because , i do n't want another one , 
i do too , 
i do n't even open them much , 
i throw them out . 
i do n't want to have to mess with it . 
you carry around a wallet full of credit cards , 
and one of these days it 's going to all be full . 
it was a visa or mastercard , 
she found an ad for one in a good housekeeping magazine for eleven percent . 
that 's not bad . 
i need one of those . 
if they do n't say , no annual membership on them , i 'll throw them away . 
years ago i had my visa card through this bank in oklahoma city for probably fifteen years , 
and then they started charging annual membership fees , 
and i said , i 'm not paying you , 
why do they do that ? 
it 's just another way to make money , as far as i can tell . 
they get enough on the interest . 
and i guess , they figure they 've got enough people out there with cards , 
they 're going to get cards at twenty bucks a pop . 
there 's going to be that much more . 
so , then a couple years ago i found a bank here in plano that if you kept a minimum balance in any kind of account whether it was a savings account or what it was , you can get a visa card through them and no annual membership . 
so , i went over and just stuck three hundred dollars in my son 's savings account , in his name , and got my visa card , 
so , as long as they have no annual membership fee , it would be okay , 
but i ca n't see paying someone to use their card . 
i ca n't either . 
be charged their eighteen percent interest , 
so . 
i think you 're right . 
the best philosophy is have them if you need them , but otherwise leave them tucked away somewhere . 
gets a lot of people in trouble . 
it sure does . 
maybe they 're counting on that , 
i do n't know . 
i guess that 's it . 
thanks for talking . 
nice talking to you . 
do you have any friends that have children ? 
i do have friends that have children , 
and what do they say about finding adequate child care ? 
i think that may be the key word . 
i think that 's correct . 
they 're relatively nonexistent from what i hear from my friends . 
it seems like even when they have consulted day care centers that are quote unquote reputable , that are sort of like a chain still you have to deal with the people that happen to be operating it locally 
and it 's just a matter of trust , 
i think they feel that these people are under qualified basically and underpaid , 
and i think that sort of goes hand in hand 
so it 's difficult for them . 
we certainly found that to be true . 
our children are now eleven and nine . 
and we moved away from institutionalized child care . and found that more creative avenues were the right answer for us . 
at one point in time we 've had au pairs , by trading services with them , 
and that worked for a while , 
but adequate ones were really tough to find . 
i 'm sure that 's true . 
it takes that mixture of a very mature college student , who wants to do something and yet is willing to give the time , and the interest to the children . 
she and her roommate became live-in care givers 
and they loved it . 
they had stayed with this family from the time these children were small four or five years old , up until they were well into grade school . 
and she was paid very well because the parents trusted them 
and they had done such a good job . 
so i can see where someone in a position like that , in a live-in capacity , would definitely be the way to go if you 're lucky enough to have the financial to be able to do that . 
that 's true , 
and that 's something that we 're struggling with now . 
i think it 's just a matter of priorities . 
it 's a terrible thing to say when you 're speaking of children in that way , 
but you still have to be realistic , as well , i think . 
much as other cultures disagree , our lives do n't revolve around our children . 
and that 's bad to have to admit , too , 
but it 's just , there 's so much pressure when you 're talking about two people that work outside the home 
and i think that is one reason why i continue to be without children . 
it 's just such a responsibility 
when you hear people say , it alters your life forever , 
take heed , 
i realize that 's true 
so it 's such a responsibility . 
it certainly is . , 
if i can the other side of the coin for a moment . 
it is such an honor and a thrill , to be a parent , that most of the time , it 's worth it . 
most of the time . 
i just have to be honest about it . 
it 's not always , worth it . 
there are those times when i think , if i did n't have children i could be out playing bridge or golf . 
but it 's funny . 
i had a friend that said before we always said we do n't want children because we ca n't go off on the spur of the moment or this or that and the other 
and she got older 
and she said , but we never do those things anyway . 
so why am i waiting , 
it 's just the way your attitude changes 
and you mature i suppose . 
but the thing about the child care i have friends that struggle financially 
and they both do have to work . 
it 's a matter not necessarily that she might want to stay home or he , as well , 
but they need the money . 
and when i seen some of my friends that have taken that six week old baby to someone else , i can imagine how emotional it must be . 
and , multiplied by the fact that you do n't really trust the person or you 're uncomfortable with the situation as far as child care , 
it 's just a scary thing . 
we were lucky when our children were that age , 
and having lived in a community for a while we knew the person to whom we were entrusting our children . 
that 's a big plus . 
and felt that feeling of safety . 
and were leaving them . 
but , we also learned something from that experience as our children got older . 
it 's that care givers are not omniscient 
they are not all things to all people or all children . 
the ones that are good with babies tend not to be good with toddlers . 
i do n't know , 
i think your patient level needs to increase as the child gets older . 
i think that might be part of the problem with some people , 
taking care of a baby is not an easy thing , 
but when you have them in , their little feet are moving and you have to chase them down constantly . 
i 'm sure that 's a whole new ball game . 
i have a nine year old that i would trade happily for a baby mumblex . 
since they 're both in school , you do n't have to worry about a full-time person to take care of them . 
you do n't know what happens after they get in school . 
that 's something altogether different . 
one takes piano lessons , somewhere on one afternoon 
and the other one , of course ca n't do the same thing . 
of course not . 
it has to be somewhere else 
and it 's not adequate to sit and wait . 
you ca n't do that . 
that will not do . 
that 's out of the question , 
i 'm sure . 
of course . 
but , we are helping . 
we are being cooperative , 
what 's wrong with you ? 
you do n't understand this . 
that 's just the way their minds work . 
and it 's almost everyday . 
that 's amazing . 
the stamina that you must draw from yourself to deal with it . 
it must be interesting . 
i guess you find out that you 're a much stronger person than you thought , maybe . 
i 've been finding out that i really am a nice person . 
and now , i need it . 
now it 's just a reservoir that you tend to regularly , i 'm sure . 
and it stays low a lot . 
do you feel comfortable with them coming home after school until you and your wife get home 
absolutely not . 
one of them i would leave unsupervised any time , any place , any where . 
the other one i would n't leave unsupervised two minutes . 
that 's just a difference in kids , i suppose . 
that 's true . 
one leads the other ? 
and it 's the one that 's going downhill , 
is it the one that needs more supervision that has a bad influence on the older or more mature one ? 
of course . 
how unfortunate . 
you do n't think that good prevails . 
i 'm living in a dream world , 
what do i know . 
as i said , i do n't have kids 
and i 'm an only child 
so i 've never been around children . 
so i 'm sort of at a loss where that 's concerned . 
but i do hear my friends talk about it . 
we 're having such fun , 
my wife and i were both only children . 
and we just could n't wait to have two children so they would be such friends . 
that 's like world war three every minute . 
i do n't know 
i have to admit , i was selfish as a child . 
i did n't want a brother or sister . 
and now that i 'm older , of course , it 's different . 
i think about would n't it be nice , 
but anyway . 
just make good friends . 
i have wonderful friends . 
that 's true 
my best friend is one child of ten . 
and so they just sort of adopted me as their eleventh child 
so that worked out pretty well . 
she never had to worry about taking anybody to child care because there was always somebody there older to deal with them , 
so i guess , that 's an alternative . 
if you could just have a whole bunch . 
have enough . 
by the time the youngest ones are there , you 'll have older one to take care of them . 
that 's true . 
i do n't know . 
when you see all these horror stories on television about child care 
and 
i was seeing something on the television earlier about a little girl that 's been telling her mother these terrible stories 
and of course people are denying it . 
and it 's just frightening . 
it really is . 
what 's frightening is a parent to see things that you do n't understand . 
and then you do n't really know what happened . 
so how do you think we 've changed in the last ten to twenty years ? 
i 'm at a little bit of a loss , 
i do n't know , 
ten years ago , 
i 'm about twenty-eight now 
things have n't changed a whole lot . 
people are being a little less bigoted in some ways , 
i do n't know 
seems to me . 
i guess i 'm like my parents . 
the younger generation gets away with hell , 
it seems to me that civic freedoms are more restricted 
but that may just be because i 've changed . 
i used to live up north . 
down here , dallas , seems to me , the police are militant 
where 'd you live 
where 'd you live at , 
i lived in akron , ohio . 
did you ? 
i 'm from , illinois , 
how long you been in dallas ? 
about eight years . 
in fact in the eight years i 've been here it seems to me it gets to be more and more restrictive place to live , 
as you 're talking police and stuff like that it 's definitely a tough job to do . 
crime has got a lot worse in the last ten , fifteen years , 
i agree . 
and maybe that has a lot to do with it . 
i definitely think that has gotten a lot worse , 
to me there seems to be a little bit of a decline in the family values . 
that 's true . 
that 's true , 
i 'd say my own personal lifestyle has improved 
i 'm no longer a teenager in high school . 
i think there 's more pressure on both parents to work , and things like that than there used to be 
somebody 's at the door . 
hang on just a second . 
but i do n't know , 
that 's one thing i see a lot more double income families and a lot more baby sitters raising the kids and things like that , i guess . 
that 's true , 
it 's getting more and more expensive to live . 
that 's for sure . 
you ca n't make it , 
that 's right . 
i guess , when i was growing up , it was still the ideal to get a home and buy house , 
and these days you see a lot of people living in apartments forever 
you just do n't buy a house , 
just because they ca n't get into one , 
that 's right . 
the ways our tax laws and stuff are structured , you ca n't ever catch a break until you can get into a house in a lot of ways , 
so . 
that 's a good point 
so , i 'm trying to think of anything else that 's changed over the last ten or twenty years . 
for me it 's kind of hard , 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know , 
i think the middle class is shrinking and the lower class is expanding 
i agree . 
and sooner or later there 's going to be a turn around . 
i hope so , 
at some point 
but i do n't know at what point , 
but i think it 's going to be at the expense of the middle class 
so , usually is i think . 
it 's hard for me to say . 
i hope it happens , because i 'd be one of those that gets caught . 
but on the other hand , there 's a lot of injustice that needs to be changed . 
that 's right . 
do you work at t i ? 
do you ? 
what department do you work in ? 
i 'm in semiconductor . 
are you ? 
i 'm in semiconductor division too . 
. how long you been with them , 
since you moved down here ? 
about eight years , 
i 'm over at the center one building . 
so am i . 
are you really . 
what floor ? 
two . 
i 'm on the seventh floor . 
how about that . 
it 's a small world . 
so let 's see , 
second floor , you work with linear . 
do you know alec morton ? 
i 've probably seen him around . 
you do . 
he comes up and pushes us around 
are you d a d or something up there ? 
are you d a d or something ? 
you must know him . 
his reputation precedes him . 
seventh floor . 
t a d , 
he comes up there and gives us all kinds of grief . 
they say it 's what makes him happy is to give us d a d -ers grief , 
so i can believe it 
let 's see , 
if you 've been in dallas eight years , i guess that 's about how long , 
i 've been in here about eight years , too , i guess . 
been with t i twelve , 
but i started out in lubbock . 
i do n't know , 
i guess if this is the only place you 've lived , lubbock is a lot different than dallas . 
flat , dry and dirty , 
but the people all seem to be a lot more laid back , too , 
here in dallas everything is just real rush , rush . 
i lived in the country for several years , 
and living in the city is a whole different social structure 
seems like he went to school at devry . 
is there a devry in akron ? 
i do n't even know 
i have n't been up there in years . 
i see , 
he went to school somewhere in ohio , 
and he 's from that area , 
and he works over in the park central building i think 
but i have n't talked to him in a while , 
but 
he misses it . 
he used to go back twice or three times a year because he missed it . 
sounds like you have n't been back there in a while . 
i have n't been back in ten , fifteen years . 
you still have relatives back there 
i do , 
i just have n't had a chance to get back . 
catch them next year probably . 
let 's see , 
how long are we supposed to talk here ? 
i do n't know , 
i think we ran out of social changes to talk about , 
my kids are probably needing me to go 
it 's nice talking to you . 
talk to you later . 
i grew up on a farm , 
did you grow up in the farm . 
at that time i was in trenton , new jersey 
and it was a suburb of trenton , 
so i really had mixture of suburb , and urban living . 
i see , 
i see , 
little bit different . 
i think though it was much slower and much more self-contained . 
i think you 're right . 
it 's interesting 
i work in a high school . 
so i 'm comparing my life when i was in high school thirty years ago to what i see these children doing . 
you hear this as an excuse , 
but it 's true they are so much greater . 
unreal by comparison . 
i can not believe what they 're doing academically the demands on them 
and i can see why children do drop out . 
i think that 's right . 
i can remember as a child nobody ever worried about me wondering out at night and going where i wanted to go . 
it did n't occur to nobody to worry that anything would happen to me 
and you did n't have to lock your door . 
some of these are urban worries 
let 's see , 
it 's not all that long ago is it . 
twenty-five years ago is when we had the washington riots , 
we 've been having some problem now 
and it reminded me of that . 
we were living in new jersey . twenty years ago . 
whereabouts ? 
in allendale . 
and i use to have to go over to patterson when those riots were going on , sometimes . 
i do n't know though 
though the news media had those riots kind of blown up out of proportion . 
because i went there many times 
i never saw a riot . did you ? 
because i lived 
and what you saw was what you got . 
i 'm telling you . 
but it is interesting , 
they 're different kind of dangers that face young people now and social pressures , 
the pressures of drug is so much , 
the prevalence is so much greater , 
so much of what 's going on , is so much more serious then when we were younger . 
i think that 's true , 
i think that 's true . 
i think the other thing is that we have taken some rather drastic turns in our education and the way we approach things as of maybe starting back when i 'm number one and worrying about self and not seeing the consequences of the disintegration of the family . 
if you do n't have some kind of basic believe or something down inside of you , then it 's very difficult to have anything to turn to , when you 've got something facing you like that . 
that 's true . 
i also being involved in the school system see so many of the problem children coming from their parents children who will lie and cheat 
and you approach their parents , 
they 're constantly , excusing their , child 
and you can see exactly , why the child is that way . 
you as a teacher , ca n't hold a child accountable , if you 're not going to get reinforced by , that at home . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
and you ca n't make up in a classroom of one hour a day , what 's not been done for , fifteen or sixteen years at home , 
that 's right . 
and you get mixed signals 
so it 's not always the school 's systems 
i think a lot of , it is the families , the way you were mentioning , 
there 's so much more , then that 
it starts , very much deeper then that 
i think that too . 
i see some flickers of good directions , 
but whether they 're soon enough and fast enough i do n't know , 
with farming being so mechanized people working on the family farm which was a traditional american way that becomes less and less likely , 
factory jobs are so much more sophisticated . 
that 's right . 
it 's requiring an increasingly sophisticated labor force 
and , some people just do n't have it . 
and there 's so many people on the lower end of those who are going to be the drop outs and the poor and the homeless and whatnot , 
some ways it 's rather frightening , 
it really is 
it just is almost overwhelming sometimes when you think , of the jobs that is out there to be done , in order to flip things back around the way they needed to be , 
it certainly is . 
it sure is . 
it sure is . 
not that i really think that they were perfect ten , twenty , or thirty years ago , 
it was a little easier though was n't it ? 
just the volume makes a big difference , 
as , uh , mother i use to think sometimes it 's not so much the kids , 
it 's just the volume of it , to try to keep all wash done and all the things done and everything . 
and all the things demanded of the mother too 
i look at my mother 's life 
she did n't work , 
for a long time when i was very young she did n't drive . 
she learned to drive when i was a teenager , 
and her life was a lot simpler , 
and children 's lives were simpler because mother was there , 
and i sit here , 
somebody was there . 
that 's right . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
and i think that 's sad if they have to because they miss so much , 
but i believed after having a few teenagers that the worst time you could go work was when they were teenagers . 
they need you more as a teenager . 
is n't that true . 
that 's why i 'm working in a school system so that i 'm home when they 're home . 
it 's not so much that they come to you every minute , 
but it 's that you are there when they need you . 
that 's so true , 
i find working in a high school is very helpful because it lets me be a little more tolerant and understanding of what people do , 
and it keeps me from being the old fogy 
but at the same time , it prevents kids from try to go pull the wool over your eyes , 
i think that 's true . 
but that 's the same 
i 'm home in the summers , 
i 'm home with the holidays , 
i 'm home at three o clock when the children are at home or where home , 
one is now a senior in high school 
and the other 's in college , 
but that helps a lot , 
it does , 
i have a daughter who just had a second job , 
she needed to work 
and he opted to go into a day care center where she could have her children with her . and looked a long time before she found one that was laid back enough so she would be able to interact with them , 
that 's right . 
i think that 's really important 
i do n't think people realize how important it is . 
that is so true , 
and it 's not that the children always say something 
but every once in awhile they 'll come up and make a comment , 
and yet we have to make that choice 
i think twenty , thirty years ago a lot of women , just did n't have to make that choice . 
i think that 's right . 
what was your name again ? 
linda lee . 
linda . 
and your name was ? 
i enjoyed , talking with you . 
i 'm going to , change the world 
i enjoyed talking with you . 
it 's nice talking to you , too . 
kathleen , do you believe that there is a problem with our public school system ? 
i certainly do . 
i think we have a lousy school system . 
and what do you think that problem is ? 
and i think a lot of it has to do with the fact that we do n't train our teachers very well . 
and then we put the schools in the hands of professional educators instead of the teachers and the parents . 
and then we put too much responsibility on the teachers , for things that are really not education . 
they 're social services . 
. that seems like you 've thought this through quite a bit before . 
as a matter of fact , i just finished editing a book on the topic . 
so i have some rather strong opinions . 
that 's interesting . 
and i 'm sure they 're colored by what i 've edited . 
do youself have children who are or have been through the public school system ? 
i do . 
and i was not very happy with the results . 
i see . 
so if you were to improve it , what would you do to improve it ? 
i think i would start with getting rid of about two-thirds of the administrators . and all the auxiliary personnel . the school bureaucracy that exists mainly to perpetuate itself . 
and then i would use the money that we 've paying them to provide some special help in training and particularly mentor teachers to work with the beginning teachers and the teachers who may have been at it a long time but have been making the same mistakes for a long time . 
and then let them try some innovative things and see what works . and then have some sort of mechanism for passing that knowledge along to other teachers who could benefit from the same sorts of things . and then from the parents ' side , have the parents support the school . get involved . 
pay attention to what 's happening . talk to the teachers . talk to their kids about school . and support the institution 
instead of becoming adversaries to the teachers so that the teacher 's in the middle . 
that 's some pretty good ideas . 
why do n't you do something with those ? 
i 've done about all i can do which is get the manuscript in good shape so that it can be published and read by a lot of people . 
you should run for a school board position . 
. that i 'm not so sure about . 
i 've got a lot of things to keep me busy . 
have you done anything like that ? 
anything political ? 
my mother was on the school board . as we were coming up . 
they 've always been involved . 
my parents through the p t a organization . 
and my mother was on the school board for eight years . 
but i guess that 's more than some people , less than others . 
that 's more than a lot . 
i would tend to agree with you that there is a problem . 
the methods of correcting it i have n't thought through quite to the detail which you have . 
but i believe that there 's definitely a basic perception and image problem with the fact of even being a teacher . 
and with that , of course you have to pay them accordingly . 
if we paid them more , it would attract more the higher educated people to either move into that field or to continue in that field . 
and then if you paid them more , you 'd also be able to demand a higher quality product out of them . 
i think that 's absolutely right . 
the thing that worries me about that is that if you just raise salaries across the board , you 're going to be rewarding people who 've been doing a lousy job . instead of getting the improvement that we want . 
so we 'd have to have some way to reward and recognize the teachers who are doing a good job and give them a pat on the back and respect and some honor and more money . 
and it 's a business or an occupation that the results are not as tangible as other ones 
it 's hard to tell . 
so it 's very difficult to say that this teacher is doing a better job than this other one , other than how a person scores in the beginning before the class and then after the class . 
if there 's some gauge that they could make . 
before you can get a certificate , you have a certain residency period . much like a doctor . 
maybe not the four years definitely . 
but some certain type of position where you 're overseen to begin with . 
that 's a very good suggestion . 
i do n't think student teaching is enough . 
at least what i used to observe in student teaching , was that some college kid who might not be all that bright to begin with , was thrown into a class room with a teacher who was harried and overworked and had too many kids to handle and too many things to do and too many interruptions to pay much attention to the student teacher . 
and then the student teacher did n't stay but about six weeks . 
so there really was no time to try , much of anything and get significant feedback that would help the student teacher improve very much . 
there are lots of things that could be done in that line , including things like video taping . 
because it would n't be hard with all the electronic equipment that 's around these days to video tape either a master teacher teaching a class so that then , students could watch that and criticize the methods used and analyze it . figure out what worked and what did n't work . 
and then also to video tape the student teachers so they could correct their own performance . 
that 's good as a teaching aid . 
but more you see these commercials that have jimmy walking into class late 
and it happens that the teacher is an instructor who is in new york while jimmy 's in rome . 
and the whole electronic classroom idea . 
i do n't think that 's going to work . 
i think , especially in the younger years you need to have more of the person contact rather than just the fact that your machine being fed information to learn how to learn . 
another thing i think would be helpful would be to have some sort of a national curriculum . because one of the problems with getting good textbooks is that we have such a fragmented system for curriculums that the textbook makers produce a textbook that will sell in texas and california . 
and then everybody else is stuck with that , regardless of what they want to teach . 
is that because that 's where the two biggest markets are 
that 's the two states that adopt on a state wide basis . 
i see . 
i used to work for a textbook publisher 
and it was absolutely clear that if you could get your book adopted by texas , then you had a built-in market because there were only about three or four textbooks in each subject 
and all you had to do is just get your share of those adopted in the individual school districts . 
and a third of the texas market with its millions of kids is a heck of a lot of textbooks . 
and then the states that either do n't adopt on a state wide basis or do n't have as many kids , just have to follow along and take what texas gets . 
california is the biggest for elementary schools 
but texas adopts state wide all the way through the twelfth grade . 
i see . 
definitely is a national problem that they need to address . 
sure is . 
definitely is . 
and i hope maybe we 're going to get somewhere with a little more attention being paid to it with reagan 's new education secretary trying to produce some new programs anyway . 
excuse me . 
i 've enjoyed speaking with you . 
i have got to go . 
i 've got another line calling . 
that 's okay 
tell me about your home . 
it looks like a little shot gun house , almost . 
it 's got three bedrooms going along one side and the living room and kitchen on the other . 
it 's an older home , 
it 's not new , 
i like it though , 
it 's big . 
what kind of square footage ? 
i would n't know , 
i measured it one time , because we had saw some termites 
and we thought about getting it sprayed . 
i ca n't remember , 
i 'm sorry 
that 's okay , 
that 's okay . 
it 's big enough for us , though . 
we kind of need maybe one more room . 
we 've got two children . 
so where do you live at , 
what part of town . here in denison . 
that 's north . 
or down here in denison , 
i live in plano , 
so it 's north to me . 
up here then . 
i say down , 
i 'm really from kentucky . 
you have a southern accent , 
but you do n't have a texas accent . 
i 'm originally from ohio , cincinnati , 
that area , 
that dialect . 
also i lived in georgia for about four years , 
there 's a difference too , between east and west , in the south . and the way in which people speak . 
anyway , my home i guess it 's about twenty-five hundred square foot 
and i have four bedrooms at the present . 
we 're busting out walls and things like that . 
that 's what i want to do . 
how many kids do you have ? 
we have two , 
we have two . 
do you have enough bedroom space , then ? 
we 'll have enough bedroom space , 
we 're rearranging our house because the bedrooms are kind of small . 
and so , we 're going to enlarge our master bedroom and take out a couple of walls and enlarge it . and then shuffle the rooms around a little bit . 
that 's kind of like what we 'd like to do . 
we just had a baby a couple months ago 
and we 've got a den , 
it 's more or less a spare room . 
we rarely go in there , except for to play chess . 
we want to make that a bedroom for my stepdaughter and my daughter 
and we need the one extra room . 
like you said , the bedrooms are too small , 
the living room and kitchen are huge , 
but the bedrooms are too small . 
where you 've got to leave the furniture just one certain way , you ca n't rearrange it at all . 
i know what you 're saying there , 
ours is the same 
and they tend to put windows in the strangest places . 
we 've got two great big windows in our back bathroom . 
you 're kind of limited in what you can do there and everything , 
no privacy . 
we do n't have a lot of that , 
we 've got at least two windows on every wall in the house . 
i 'd hate to clean these windows , 
i really would . 
i figured i 'm going to have to hire somebody to remove our windows and put new ones in that are easier to clean . 
ours are the double pane 
and you ca n't really clean them on the inside . 
ours are those too , 
you must live in an older home too then . 
i do , 
the house is almost thirty years old . 
so it 's not a new home , 
it 's seen some wear and tear . 
ours has too . 
when we moved in the man that sold it to us had said that he remodeled it , 
and he did it hisself , 
so most of that , by now , is falling apart . 
it 's not just horrible , 
but this tile 's come loose off the wall , 
the whole bathroom is covered from ceiling to foot in tile 
and i do n't like that at all . 
that is awful . 
with the great big square tiles that you put on the floor , the huge one . 
he did it in that ? 
instead of wallpaper . 
i would n't mind it if it was short tiles , 
the normal tiles , 
that you put around a bathtub , 
that would be prettier . 
but this looks like floor covering on the wall . 
it just does n't look good . 
and also they 're very heavy 
and so they tend to come off a whole lot easier . 
there 's one big one that has come off 
and short of putting nails through it , we ca n't get it back on , 
and he rewired the house 
and it 's shorting out here and there , 
that 's one of the things we 've been fortunate with , is our wiring is okay . 
we do n't have enough power , 
or our breakers are n't powerful enough to really help with the load in the house . 
we need to redo some , rewiring ourselves 
but our plumbing is awful . 
there is a shut off valve that 's outside that does n't work , 
and there 's no other real shut off valves inside the house , 
so if something breaks , we have to shut it off from the main , in the street , 
and it can be really bizarre . 
and we never know where it 's going to flood . 
we 've got power surges on the west side of our house . 
we 've got our stereo hooked up . 
it 's always ran just fine , the clock and stuff . 
but it runs about ten minutes fast , except for about a month the clock ran normal . 
and then the power went off again , 
lightning or something knocked it out 
and we hooked it back up 
and now it 's running ten or fifteen minutes fast again . 
but on the east side of the house it runs fine . 
you do have a strange wiring problem there . 
he put new wiring in , 
it 's all new wiring up in the attic , or crawl space , 
but 
he did n't know what he was doing , 
he really should have hired people . 
that 's something , 
my husband 's in construction 
and he wo n't even touch electrical stuff . 
he 'll do a little things 
but he wo n't do any major rewiring . 
he says he 'd rather pay the electrician to handle it . 
he 'll end up killing himself . 
end up killing theirselves . 
that 's right . 
my husband , he 'll change out a light switch , 
but that 's about as far as he 'll go . 
that 's the way mine is , 
he said he went up in the attic and looked around 
and he was , 
he says , looks like a bunch of spaghetti up there . 
and we had squirrels in our attic when we first moved in because the roof was so sorry , 
was a what , 
the roof was really sorry . 
when we moved in , we had no idea how bad it was . 
it was a wood shingle roof , 
the first year we were living there , we had to replace the roof . 
which 
i heard it 's a law that you 're only allowed to have three layers of shingles . 
is it three or five , 
your husband probably knows . 
he probably knows , 
i do n't know what it is off hand . 
he 's got seven layers of shingles up there , 
and he told us it was a completely new roof . 
like i said , he did n't know what he was doing . 
he must not of . 
we stripped ours off . 
we did n't put it over , 'cause we put composition roof on . 
and we completely stripped all the old wood shingles off , put decking up , put the paper down , and just started from scratch . 
unfortunately when we were doing that it decided it wanted to snow and hail and rain . 
we had almost about half of the roof off , 
and it did this . 
and a house full of snow . 
and a house full of snow , and rain , 
and it came down , 
it did this in the middle of the night . 
we have plastic just tied down on everything as best we could , real thick edge stuff , 
and the wind came in from the north 
and it just blew everything off in the middle of the night 
and we were asleep 
and i woke up 
and i got up 
and it was about four o'clock in the morning 
and i heard all these drips . 
i had water coming in every light fixture . 
i had water coming in everything that was in the ceiling , everywhere . 
and it filled up my light fixtures , because they 're the old kind . 
and i would go in , 
and i 'd turn on a light in the room 
and the light would come on 
and the whole thing would be full of water . 
and the light would still come on . 
it did n't blow up or anything . 
we all lived on base , 
my husband was in the army . 
she woke up about three or four o'clock in the morning , water dripping from hers . 
the neighbor 's washing machine had over done something , 
i do n't know 
but it was leaking , just pouring water in 
and it all went through to her roof 
and it was coming out of the lights , fixtures . 
the fire alarm went off for some reason . 
it shorted it out , or something . 
that will happen . 
so she woke up with about six feet of water in her house . 
not six feet 
but it 's quite a bit , quite a bit , 
you know that , 
you might as well 
so . did you have carpets and stuff ? 
several of our rooms got ruined , 
we are on pier and beam , 
we do n't have concrete slab underneath our house , 
so it got into the carpeting , got into the floor . 
the carpeting was already awful anyway , 
but it got into the floor and rotted the floor and made it stink 
your house sounds like mine because mine 's pier and beam too . 
they came in 
one room they completely cut up the floor in and removed it . 
we had to call the insurance company . 
the insurance company was paying for the new roof 
but they also ended up having to pay for the damage when the roof was being repaired which really was n't our fault . 
we 'd done everything we could to keep out the weather and stuff 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
you got to redo it the way you wanted it in the end . 
are you finished with it now ? 
the roof ? 
it 's been done for quite some time . 
we 're really glad with all the rain we 've had in the last couple of years that we have a really good roof . 
how long have you lived there ? 
it 's just been at three years . 
we 've been in the house just the three years . 
we 've been doing a lot of remodeling . 
it had a detached garage 
and my husband 's built a walkway across 
and we 're going to brick up the garage to match the house and things like that 
you all did it yourselves ? 
the walk ? 
the home improvements . 
he does this for a living , 
it seems to me that one of the biggest differences is the computer revolution . 
and , i can very clearly remember ten years ago i was just beginning to explore computerizing my office and trying to find out what kinds of computers might be useful 
and we did end up with i b m , p c -s , which i now would not have chosen , 
but that was before the macintosh . 
and twenty years ago i was in graduate school pecking out a dissertation on a manual typewriter . 
i know it . 
so i would say that 's one of the largest changes at least in my life . 
i 've seen that just in the last even five years how much they 've increased in use . or probably eight years , 
when i was a freshman in college my degree was in computer technology originally 
they were just getting out with the disks and all that , doing away with the programming cards 
thirty years ago i had a college job working as a programmer 
and we had to write code in binary and have it punched in on those little cardboard cards which , i do n't think exists anymore . 
i know . 
you never see one of those punch cards anymore . 
i think t v has a lot to do with the changes , too . do n't you ? 
in people 's attitudes . 
very possibly . 
i 'm not sure in the last ten years it 's been very different from before . 
certainly in the last thirty i would say there have been significant changes . even the change from black and white to color television . 
thirty years ago i guess there were color t v -s , 
but i sure did n't have access to one . 
but , twenty years ago , practically everybody had a color t v , 
there are more t v -s than households , 
so it 's close to one t v per person they say . 
and now everybody has v c r -s and two or three v c r -s and that kind of thing . 
certainly ten years ago v c r -s were just coming on the market 
so that 's made a significant difference in the way i watch television for instance , 
because now i almost never watch a t v program when it 's on . 
i know . 
i tape it and then watch it when it 's convenient 
and that way i do n't have to worry about being interrupted . 
i can just put it on pause . 
and you can flip through the commercials 
so you do n't have to watch the commercials . 
that 's always convenient . 
you can watch a program in forty-five minutes instead of an hour . 
you skip the commercials . 
what was our question about , 
was n't the decline so much . 
i think they just said the social changes in the united states . 
how was life different ten , twenty , or thirty years ago . 
i ca n't really remember back that far , 
but ten years ago in the nineteen seventies you remember how kids would walk around with little a m radios 
and now people have jam box with c d players in them and , hand held t v -s and car phones . 
that 's certainly , a difference . 
that 's another one , 
car phones is a good point , and cellular phones of all types and beepers . 
ten years ago i was working in a job at a medical center 
and i had to carry a beeper around 
and they were kind of bulky 
and all they did was just make a beep noise 
and then you had to go find a telephone and call in to find out what they wanted you for and who you were supposed to call . 
these days they have these tiny little things that are only about the size of two or three pencils 
and they fit in your shirt pocket 
and they have a little display screen that shows you a message and either tells you a person or a phone number to respond to 
those are cool . 
those are pretty neat . 
and they have the kind that just vibrates so you can shut them off , in a theatre or something 
and you can still get your messages . 
but , let 's see , 
social changes 
where do you think it 's going to go in twenty years ? 
i have n't the slightest idea . 
i was just thinking , though , about a huge social change in the last ten years is aids . 
it was just beginning to be recognized and noticed ten years ago . 
i know that because i was writing a paper about it . 
i was writing a journal article . 
and they still did n't even know what caused it or anything . 
and there was a suspicion , that it was a virus 
but nobody had identified it 
and they were really just going on epidemiological guesswork because the way it was transmitted made it look an awful lot like hepatitis 
and then , from the spread pattern of hepatitis , they could work backwards to the transmission by blood and semen . 
i 'm curious 
what was your graduate study in ? 
i was in english as a matter of fact , and medieval studies , 
but i went to work as an editor and writer , 
so ten years ago i was working in the medical center publishing a journal and writing about medical topics . 
and , let 's see , 
twenty years ago , i guess we were just beginning to get into what they were calling the sex revolution after the pill 
and freed people up from worries about illegitimate pregnancy 
and , i guess in the seventies is the time when that was supposed to have exploded . 
thirty years ago there was no pill . 
you think that 's caused a lot of pressure on younger kids today , to make choices that they probably should n't have to make ? 
i do . 
i really do . 
i have four kids in college right now , children and stepchildren 
and i know that the expectation for them was to have sex and , much earlier , than the expectation when i was in college . 
in my day , we talked quietly behind our hands about people that we suspected might be , sleeping with their boyfriends . 
but , they certainly did n't expect everybody to 
and it was really only acceptable if you were engaged and planning to get married in the relatively near future . 
and i certainly know from talking to my stepdaughter that girls in high school were under a whole lot more pressure nowadays . 
it 's kind of scary when i think of what will happen in twenty years when i have kids and they 're grown and just kind of some of the changes that will happen even more 
and i guess the answer , is , stay flexible because nobody can predict what 's going to happen in twenty years . 
seems like it ca n't get much worse . 
i certainly would n't have been able to twenty years ago tell you what my kids were likely to be like . 
course , one of them was just a brand new baby twenty years ago , 
so i sure would n't have been able to predict for him . 
and some of the other ones were n't born . 
sounds like america 's going to become even more communication society with faxes and cellular phones and worldwide communication 
electronic mail . 
i just got on that , about a year ago 
and that 's made a difference in the way i do my job because it 's so much easier to get hold of people and get quick answers to things . even when they 're on another continent . 
it 's pretty wild . 
that reminds me , 
federal express was around ten years ago , 
but it was used as kind of an extreme emergency 
and nowadays people use fed ex , all the time . 
sure do . 
people do seem to travel more . 
it 's much more common for people , even teenagers to be going to europe and south america and , asia . 
i was almost thirty before i got off this continent . 
and both my kids had been abroad when they were still in high school . 
i know that 's what my family was talking when i picked up and moved to texas from indiana 
and they were thirty years ago we would n't have done that . 
and especially come home every couple months . 
far as crime in the cities , i 'm sure , like in yours it 's pretty bad . 
probably the biggest thing we 've got going now is the robberies 
and theft and probably murder are the two top ones that we have . 
how about you ? 
i do n't actually live in the city , 
but i 'd probably say that 's roughly right . 
crimes against property seem to outnumber crimes against life , 
but i think with the current war on drugs and all this kind of stuff i 'd say probably the police department would claim the number one crimes are probably solicitation of prostitution and sale of drugs . 
probably right , if you look at it from that stand point . 
is there anything that you particularly are concerned with in your particular area as far as security and that sort of thing ? 
where i live now it 's not so bad . 
i can basically leave my front door unlocked and not have to worry about it . 
but i do have friends that live in the city 
and i think that they get a lot of fallout from this war on drug thing . just because there are crack houses on their street and stuff like this . 
do you live in a real small town or out in the country ? 
i live out in the country , 
i 'm about fifteen miles out . 
about fifteen miles . 
i live in a little suburb which from dallas is twelve miles or so 
but it 's pretty congested . 
we are considered in the country , 
but it does n't really feel like you 're in the country . 
our major crimes in our immediate town is probably house robberies 
however , i 'm sure they 're there . 
but right now our neighborhood is running about eighty percent of the homeowners have been robbed , sometime during their , existence in that neighborhood . 
that 's huge . 
and since that time everybody 's got some sort of burglar system or burglar alarms including the outer perimeter type devices , sensors and things like that . 
it 's cut back considerably , 
but it just shifts it from our neighborhood to another neighborhood to other neighborhood , 
so it still remains city wide , pretty high . 
are there any theories on why this is happening ? 
i would say the majority of it 's happening during the day between probably ten in the morning and three in the afternoon . 
but why ? 
why is it happening ? 
most families are young 
and both people are working . 
so they 're happening during the hours they 're gone from work . 
so i would say that 's probably their prime motivation . 
they 'll stock your house and look at your pattern and then go from there . 
so they 're professionals ? 
they classify most of them as professionals . 
you get a few of them that are a little bit sloppier just taking just junk items that they can just get ten to twenty bucks for real quick . 
probably the biggest items that you get in our neighborhood , would be the high classed automobiles , 
the mercedes , volvos , things that they can get big dollars for and the jewelry are the major targets , 
guns , that sort of stuff . 
very few penny ante stuff . 
what do you think can be done to reduce that sort of crime ? 
the police force , for one , 
i think they could definitely add to the police force and the type equipment that they use . 
right now we are about thirty thousand people 
and there 's only eight officers that patrol for that amount of people which is not very many . 
it seems to me that sort of approach will tend to simply make the cost of committing the crime slightly higher , 
in other words , you 've increased the probability of somebody being caught a little bit . 
the real question is how do you convince people not to commit such crimes in the first place . 
course in our particular state we have the prison overcrowding , whatever , 
so they 're giving the early release , 
they 're doing that in our state , too . 
i think what they need to do is stop building more jails and start giving stiffer sentences , 
so you think that would be a deterrent ? 
that would certainly be a deterrent . 
and not necessarily give in to their human rights desires . 
if they 're overcrowded , just keep cramming them in there till they just suffocate . 
what about an innocent person who happens to have been found guilty ? 
i think they 'd have to go to extra measures to make sure a person 's guilty in a lot of cases . 
course , i know you ca n't be a hundred percent foolproof . 
so you 'd rather see it harder to convict somebody . 
i 'd rather see it a little bit harder and have a little bit more evidence to convict somebody 
and then those convicted , especially of murder and , major crimes to reach the life sentences and death penalties and follow through with that . 
especially in the case of murder 
i know in my case , my wife and daughter were kidnapped , during a house robbery back in eighty-five 
and the individuals got caught , 
we went through the court system and all that sort of thing 
and two counts of kidnapping the forty-five to the head just the mental anguish and the whole nine yards the guy only got five years . 
and he was out within two months because of the parole system . 
did you sue him under the civil system ? 
do what now ? 
did you sue him under the civil system ? 
i 'm not real familiar with that . 
you could probably sue him for mental anguish or something and try to get money from him 
the insurance companies and all that tried to go after him 
and they said , he has no job , 
he has nothing , 
there 's nothing that he has that you could go after . 
makes you wish that . 
but they give the guy a job in prison and make him pay his damn debt . 
they do n't do that here . 
course they pay them , 
you or the insurance companies never see any of that money . 
that 's too bad . 
and , right now they 're reluctant to go after him because they 're repeat offenders , 
they been in jail before , 
they 've been released several times , which is another deal i hate to see . 
but basically the guy commits three major crimes and car theft on top of it , destroys my car , 
i think that 's , 
and we 're out fifteen thousand dollars 
and the guy gets out in two months 
that 's awful . 
and he goes out and commits it again . 
fact , he 's back in jail now . 
gives you sympathy for the vigilantes . 
what deterrent does he really have ? 
i think in our particular neighborhood , vigilantism is becoming a real possibility . 
we 've had a couple break ins where the people have actually shot the people 
they 've actually waited for them , where they 've robbed particular neighborhood , 
they 'll rob one house , 
then other people will wait up and wait for somebody to do something else , try to take it in their own hands . 
course it does n't always work out in their favor . 
but nevertheless , i think people are just getting fed up and saying you ca n't arrest all of us , 
you can get some of us , 
you ca n't get all of us . 
and we 're beginning to see more and more of that . 
and that 's a deterrent , too . if you think the home owner might be armed and awake 
here you break in , 
and you 're going to get shot . 
we have had a few cases where the guy has broken in during the middle of the night and gotten himself shot to death . 
and it helps for a while 
but then just another different set of people come in , 
and most of the people are transients from outside of the state . 
i would say probably eighty percent of them that are caught , they 're from places like up in oklahoma , and louisiana , arkansas across the border . 
so people who do n't readily read the newspapers in our town or whatever 
it 's not many from the local communities . 
but it 's a problem , 
and i think that the court systems need to be stiffer in their penalties , 
would be a definite deterrent 
and , giving the police agencies a little bit more jurisdiction over what they do when they catch these people . 
i tend to agree with you . 
i think what i would like to see is , number one , completely getting rid of these victimless crimes . 
there 's no reason to enforce those and spend time and money doing it and worry about these things where people are getting hurt . 
and i think one of the big things that you can do to increase deterrence is , if someone is found guilty of a felony level offense , they lose their citizenship . 
and they lose their constitutional rights . 
and just a lot of things that we 're trying to worry about protecting these people from , we just do n't protect them . 
i know in my wife 's case , they made her feel like the criminal . 
i know , 
and i think that 's ridiculous . 
i 'll offer anything that i can on the subject . 
my husband and i just moved here recently 
and we bought this house about year and a half ago . 
what we have here now is just a basic three bedroom , two bath , brick house which is completely different from what i had had before . 
when i was working and before i married i lived in a little town south of here that is just full of old homes and historic old houses and things like that 
i was in the process of renovating a house that was about seventy-five years old . 
so it had to have everything done from top to bottom to having it leveled , jacked up new plumbing , new wiring , wallpaper , paint , 
everything you can think of , that house had to have . 
you are experienced i would say . 
i really did enjoy it , 
it was amazing what i found out i could do on my own if i just put my mind to it . 
i agree . 
i have done something like that , too , only not nearly as extensive . 
but it must be interesting now trying to do something to a basic ranch , style home . after having a one that was historical looking . 
it is . 
it is . 
that 's true . 
when i met my husband , he was living in an apartment at the time 
and , the town that i was living in only about eighty miles from here . 
the market was so good , 
we had n't really planned on buying 
and , as you probably heard in the dallas and texas area period the housing market is just unreal . 
you can get things for such a song . 
so , that 's really why we ended up in a house like this . 
this is not what we want to stay in forever , because i 've found that after doing this other house , i have to have my hands into stuff 
and i 'm always just wanting to paint and wallpaper and redo and redo , 
so i 'm ready to get ahold of another one that i can have a little more input into 
maybe you can make that one charming and make a little bit money , 
that 's the key , 
the thing is when we moved in they had just painted , wallpapered , 
new carpet and everything 
so i feel sort of like it 's sort of defeating my purpose to go rip everything out now and do it over just because i 'm in the mood to do it . 
so we 'll see how much longer we 're here . 
we just moved to charlotte , from enid , oklahoma . 
oklahoma of all places . 
so i know , of what you 're talking about , as far as the market was concerned 
and i 'll tell you we had kind of a charming house . 
it was a cedar shake house , and very weathered . 
and it was about fifty years old , but not really traditional looking , particularly . 
i spent almost three years redoing . 
and i considered it a full time job 
it is , 
we kind of had planned this trek to the east , because we 're both originally from this part of the country . 
i see , 
and so , i think some of the things that i did paid off . 
for instance , one thing that i did that might even be a good suggestion for you was something i did on the outside . 
i love old estate sales . 
i happened to go to just a little estate sale just a little white frame house , where the couple was very old , and had gone into nursing homes 
and all the men started going down to the barn . 
that 's where i need to go . 
i 'm going to the barn , too . 
they auctioned some tools and , things like that , 
but then they went over and started auctioning this big stack of bricks . 
and , so i thought , i 've been wanting to , do some brick walkways for a time . 
work , 
anyway , it ended up after some pretty heavy bidding , that i got all those bricks for forty dollars . 
and , so my husband and i loaded bricks in his , pickup truck for days . 
but , what we ended up with was about four thousand . 
for forty dollars ? 
for forty dollars . 
we had built a deck on the back of that house , 
and , it was quite large into the yard 
something . 
but , on either side of it to the ends of the house it just needed to be all tied together . 
so we , made brick patios , and walkways . 
how fun . 
how nice . 
and he did the digging , which was about six inches , 
but i figured the sand and all , had that delivered and , leveled it and , placed most all the bricks . 
and it turned out beautifully . 
i bet . 
and what satisfaction to know that you did it in such an inexpensive way . 
it nearly killed me . 
but you did stagger back and say , does n't this look nice . 
i hated to leave it . 
let me ask you , 
when you laid those bricks , 
i know my parents bought a house about ten years ago , 
they 're fixing to sell it again , and move again . 
my mom 's like i am . 
she 's a renovator , a lover of old things 
and they have to be doing something constantly . 
i do n't know if you can put some sort of a plastic sheeting or something on top of the sand and then lay the bricks . 
but they have a problem with these little sand bugs or something that drill in between all these bricks . 
and , of course you have the weeds that come up in between the bricks and things like that . 
i did get some material and studied every bit of material that i could study , 
but we laid those bricks about as close as you can get them , 
i see . 
and we put them on a base of four inches of sand 
and then we swept sand in between , 
but it was an error to leave an eighth of an inch or whatever . 
you just put them together as close as you can . 
as tight as you can . 
every spring my mom says we 're going to have a barbecue and tell everybody , guess what , 
we 're going to redo the patio , 
we 're going to pull up all the bricks , 
but they just have n't brought themselves to do it . 
if they have problems with sand bugs of some kind i think all they need to do is probably put some insecticide down in there on a fairly regular basis , for a while anyway . 
the thing that 's funny is they 've done things like that , 
i 'll catch her out there spraying around , 
and then it 's like , in two days time they 'll come home from work 
and those little things are back . 
it 's just , they 're the most resilient little characters 
and so , i do n't know what they 're finally going to do . 
hopefully they 'll sell the house , and go somewhere else . 
i think she needs to take them to the extension agent and ask him what they are 
and then she wo n't have to worry about it . 
what are these things ? 
is it diazinon 
dursban or something like that . 
what it is that 'll , take care of them . 
dursban , 
and they 're , awful hard to do anything with . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
but my dad farms 
and she 's always telling him , is n't there something that you can bring home with you that kills everything that you spray out in the field , that you can get rid of , these bugs , 
i bet dursban would do it . 
it might do it , 
she 's got just a gorgeous yard , so many flowers and her four cats , 
so she 's sort of real funny about what she sprays . 
i think you probably just need to make sure that it dries , very , very well , before she lets her cats out , or something , like that . 
deb , we could talk all day could n't we . 
i know , 
as i said when i heard what the subject was , i thought i have n't thought about what i went through at that other house in so long . 
i 've been so busy . 
but i do n't know 
of everything that i did , i guess i enjoyed probably wallpapering the most 
and i thought that would be the hardest thing to do . 
but i ended up wallpapering every bedroom in that house up the stairway , even . 
i just had a ball with it , 
it was so much fun . 
good . 
and i 've sworn up and down , 
my mom 's great grandparents had this huge victorian house in paris , texas , 
and the one thing that she ended up with was the old door , that was on the front door of that house 
and she has that up in her attic 
i 'm going to find a house to put that door on before she does . 
so , as far as looking toward the future that 's my plan . 
do you have any particular thoughts about the school system ? 
i 'm not sure if it 's more a problem with american families or a problem with the school system . 
they seem to be burdening the school system more and more with problems , any problems that a child might have , whether it 's actually a school related thing or not 
i agree with you a hundred percent there . 
and , it 's gotten to a point where the schools are expected to take care of everything . 
it 's gotten way beyond teaching classes and maybe providing extracurricular sports activities or something . 
it 's interesting 
because we 're just having conversation on this with a couple of people yesterday . 
and i was expressing my frustrations that so many problems are that kids do n't have a degree of self-discipline which may be reflected in society at large . 
and you ca n't expect in a classroom for a particular course an hour a day to counteract sixteen or seventeen years of influence at home . 
and , it 's seen more so because when you call parents up , many parents wo n't even recognize that there is a problem 
and they 'll say , my kid , 
i 've never heard anything about this before . 
this is the first time there have been problems . 
and , you wonder , do n't these parents know that teachers talk , 
and we do check with other teachers , 
and other teachers find the same things in this child . 
and how do you tell the parent , wake up , and smell the coffee . 
but it is a problem , 
and i 'm not sure just how the school system could operate in a vacuum on it . 
you ca n't really expect that parent who 's , quite frankly a loser in life , as it is to care about the situation with their child , 
that 's right . 
you know what scares me too , is that we have yet to see the biggest effect of the crack children in the school system . 
these are children that are born with low attention deficit 
and what 's going to happen when these kids start coming into the school system . 
that 's really scary . 
but i think there are a couple of areas where the school system can improve , 
and this is something that i see . 
too many times students get diagnosed as slow learners , 
and in fact they 're not . 
they 're behavior problems . 
and so , they get put in our school system , in a class that 's limited for skills children that really have to master skills . 
and that 's not their problem . 
we have an international population . 
once they 're past e s o l , they get out , 
they got thrown right into the total mainstream 
and there really needs to be a bridge , some sort of transition for that . 
so the school systems can improve , both in standing up for splitting classes having slow children in slow classes , but not mixing them with behavior problems . 
and then the case where they put the behavior problems in the average classes , 
you get these kids that are average students but highly motivated . 
and then you throw in kids that are not motivated , maybe bright , 
but they 're discipline problems . 
the average classes really are problems because you 've got such a mixed bag there . 
the gifted and talented are fast classes . 
i would take a person who 's motivated and a little less intelligent than the person who is one of these very intelligent people who just kind of , is n't motivated to do anything . 
i remember i had a college professor who once said that genius is one percent inspiration , and ninety-nine percent perspiration . 
not to toot my own horn here or anything , but i was graduated from my high school , 
i was the valedictorian , 
and i know that there were a lot of kids that were an awful lot smarter than me , 
and they proved out late when it came time to take the s a t -s . 
mine were good , 
but they were n't great . 
and when i got into college i struggled just to get my degree in the field that i was in . 
whereas i knew people that in high school were kind of lazy and all , 
but they got motivated in college 
and they did a lot better than i did . 
i guess kids do mature at different ages too . 
and as a teacher you try to be understanding that there are different ages , 
kids are , 
got a kid that just a question of maturity , 
or is he a problem child . 
but teachers are asked to diagnose so much . 
we 're alerted 
we 're alerted the moment we see something . 
if we see a child that 's on drugs , such as if he 's got a beeper or , if they 're flashing lots of money around . there are certain things to do . 
so the school system 's asked to do so much , 
but you ca n't operate in a vacuum . 
you actually have students with beepers ? 
we 're in a rather wealthy suburb of washington . 
and a student with a beeper immediately gets sent down to the principal . 
what could they possibly be thinking . 
it 's for drug use . 
they ca n't imagine for anything else . 
it 's amazing , 
but you get all sorts of things in the schools , 
and as a teacher you 're alert for the kid who 's very drowsy . 
you 're alert to the kid who suddenly has a behavioral change , 
and you refer them to the nurse . 
and you have to find out whether there 's a legitimate reason , or whether this is a warning signal . 
and parents frequently resent when you ask them . is there a problem that we should be aware of ? 
i was sitting in the barber shop . 
i 'm an officer in the air force , 
and i was having my hair cut 
and the barber got a call while i was there from his son 's school . 
his son 's in high school . 
and his son was failing gym and having trouble , with a few other things . 
but this guy was there 's no problem with my kid . 
my kid 's a great kid and all this . 
the kid had missed all these classes , 
and basically his answer was , i gave him permission to miss . 
the denial mechanism is really strong 
and so many parents are facilitators . 
they 're manipulated by their children . 
i 've been fortunate . 
i have a son who 's a sophomore in college up in massachusetts at amherst , 
and my other son is a senior in high school , 
and he 's going on to williams . 
and they 're really super . 
they 're both national level swimmers , 
and we 've been very fortunate , 
but they had to be held accountable too . 
at some point a parent does help their kid , in some ways , 
but you have to say at what point is n't the help becoming negative . 
and i think this is where the school system is suffering , and not through any fault of the effort of the school system . 
but it was good talking with you . 
it was good talking to you too . 
so there are people throughout the country that feel the same ways that you do , and are connected with the schools . 
i 've had interesting conversations on several subjects not just this but the different things . 
it 's amazing how the people you talk to have some interesting conversations 
and it 's too bad that all this stuff is just being thrown into a data base , and that none of the ideas or thoughts are being used at all . 
we are , though . 
that 's true . 
listen , 
good luck . 
take care , 
quite a few 
and they 're varied . 
they do n't encompass many handcrafts like knitting and that kind of thing . 
but , i do quite a bit of wreath making 
and my dogs are my hobbies . 
i do a lot of gardening . 
i go to estate sales , which takes up a lot of time . 
what do you mostly do ? 
mostly right now i do a lot of sports 
and stuff like that is my hobbies 
and do a lot of things with my family as much as possible . 
we 're about to take the kids to go roller skating and and stuff , 
that should be fun . 
fun for them . 
how old are they ? 
i 've got a little girl who 's six and a little girl that 's three . 
i think that 's better than having that party at home . 
this is a friend 's party 
they just rent skates and stuff for the kids . 
so they 're looking forward to it . 
and , the skating rink does the rest practically , i guess . 
what a help that is . 
how long have you lived in north carolina ? 
not that long . 
just since october . 
we moved here from enid , oklahoma . 
so we 're originally from virginia , this part of the country . 
but , we did spend twenty years in norman and enid and loved it . 
but , we needed to get back to our older parents . 
but , i am loving it . 
the weather is divine . 
did you like oklahoma , while you were there ? 
very much . 
what did you all do ? 
my husband was with university of oklahoma and , phillips university in enid . 
and then he went with a family corporation that has oil and ranching and varied enterprises . 
we came east . 
so is he working there then 
he 's doing quite a bit of consulting work and , has been offered a permanent position 
he 's liking this free time actually . 
it 's just wonderful after all , these years of working . 
how did you get hooked up with the t i switchboard thing ? 
a gal who works with t i on this project . 
i think she 's a temporary worker . 
mother is my best friend , in virginia . 
i see . 
so , we have spread the word a little bit in this part of the country . 
i see . 
my wife has talked more than i have , 
she 's talked to four , five different people . 
it seems like she has n't talked to anybody from dallas . 
in fact , she 's talked to a couple of people from north carolina , i think . 
what is her name ? 
her name 's tina . 
i have n't talked to her . 
i have n't talked to a tina yet . 
the call was probably for her . 
they would n't accept my t i n number , 
so we put hers in . 
but like i said , we 're getting the kids ready to go to the birthday party , 
i 've only talked to one or two 
and they 've all been in dallas . 
but , she has n't talked to anybody , in dallas , yet . 
so , that 's interesting . 
you have n't told me what sports that you are active in . 
the sport i like best probably is basketball . 
but i guess i 'm probably better at softball . 
during the summer months it occupies quite a bit of my , time . 
but , i play in a couple of leagues and occasionally in a tournament or something on a weekend . 
but , my family usually goes with me . 
we try to do everything we can together . 
i think that 's easy entertainment for a , family , too . 
that 's usually the team i play on with the tournaments and stuff , 
and they have a couple of kids that are almost my kids age . 
so they play together , pretty well 
under the stands . 
under the , bleachers . 
pretty much . 
and tina enjoys the other lady , real well . 
that 's kind of nice . 
it 's like getting together with , them . 
it 's getting , a little hot , is n't it ? 
so to speak . 
it 's been raining a lot here so far . 
so we have n't really had any kind of real heat . 
i think it 's going to be warm enough this afternoon , 
we were noticing a while ago it 's already eighty in the house . 
so , it looks like an air conditioner , day . 
it sure does . 
or maybe this evening anyway . 
but i 'm sure you 're familiar with that living , here . 
very , much so . 
we go through enid quite a bit . 
we go to tulsa from time to time . 
and my parents live in southern illinois . 
so , we drive , up there . 
and lot of times we take seventy-five 
and it seems like that goes through enid , 
it does n't . 
it 's in the northwest . 
it 's directly across the state from tulsa . 
. i know i 've seen , the sign somewhere . 
sure you have . 
enid is , not an unknown little city . 
an awful lot of people know where it is , or have been there . 
and it , was a very self-sufficient wealthy town , for a long time , anyway until everything happened , 
the bottom fell out . 
it 's beginning to do well . 
but , there 's a lot of old time wealth there that , has helped to stabilize things . 
you said you 've just lived in north carolina just six months then , 
something like that . 
and you really like , it there ? 
i 've heard so many people talk about that area . 
i 've never been there 
it 's , pretty . 
but they sure , say it 's pretty . 
the weather is wonderful . 
we had so many wonderful days . 
if it got to be forty degrees , i decided it was too cold to walk the dogs . 
is n't it , funny how , your standards change ? 
it really does . 
my wife and i spent a couple years doing church work up in the state of washington right , on the coast . 
and it rains a lot there . 
but , you get used to it . 
it 's like a fine mist all the time 
it gets to where it does n't bother , you . 
carolina , this part , is very much like that , too . very , foggy and , misty . 
the moss grows , on the trees in the woods up eight , ten , feet . 
that 's the way it was , there , too . 
i think , however , that 's like february . 
i know it did it all february . 
and some people said to me , `` that 's our wintertime . '' 
i know you , need to go . 
and i 've enjoyed talking to you . 
i have enjoyed talking to you , too . 
it was nice , to talk to you . 
so much . 
i hope you enjoy , north carolina . 
thank you . 
and i hope you enjoy , and get through that birthday party . 
i hope , i live through it . 
i do , too . 
that 's what i hope . 
a lot . 
what do you think are some current trends in the way families spend time together , based on what you 've seen . 
i think that it 's getting to where they 're not spending time together . 
in my situation , today , on a weekend when couples are supposed to spend time together , my husband 's been off doing his thing all day today , 
and i 've been off doing my thing all day 
and i have n't seen him since eight o'clock this morning . 
are you newly married , 
two years . 
same situation here , 
i 've been married about ten months , 
i know what you mean . 
it 's really hard to find time to spend together when you both work full time and you both have hobbies that are different . 
if you have hobbies that are the same , then you can enjoy your hobby together , 
but my husband and i have different hobbies . 
is he a hunter and a fisher and all that . 
he 's a record collector and a hot wheels collector . 
that 's wild . 
so he was off today looking at records . 
and i was off doing household type things laundry 
and did some shopping and stuff . 
from the people i 've talked to a lot of the dads said that they would probably choose careers where they could manage their own schedule and , they could spend more time with their kids 
because they look back 
and they 're all kind of regretful , 
i think . 
i think that would be the ideal situation , 
i think that would be the ideal situation . 
in my case i do shift work . 
i do n't have that choice . 
same here . 
i have to be at work at x hour , at a certain hour 
and it 's not flexible . 
it would be nice to be able to have flexible hours 
and maybe after we decide to have kids i might find a job that has flexible hours . 
i hope so anyway . 
but i do n't know . 
at t i , is that where you work ? 
it 's really kind of sad , 
some of the people that i work with when i worked on second shift their kids go to school during the day 
and then they would n't see them at night , because they would be at work and the kids are all ready in bed . 
and so it was kind of like , they see their kids for fifteen minutes and the same with their spouses . 
this relative may work even a weirder shift like weekends , or something . 
so it was really sad , that a lot of families have to have dual income . 
a lot of people choose to , which is fine . 
but then the kids kind of suffer . 
it would be nice to be able to just have , like , back in the old days back when i grew up , 
the mom stayed home and raised the kids . 
my mom did n't go back to work until i was in junior high school . 
so she was there pretty much all my formative years . 
and that was nice 
and i liked that 
and i would hope that i would be able to give that to my kids . 
i do n't think it 's going to be realistic . 
i know . 
unfortunately , that 's probably true . 
do you think the parents spend quality time with their kids 
i think very few spend quality time . 
i think most of the time the kids are usually off watching cartoons or playing video games or stuff like that . 
i think that most kids that i see they do n't really value quality time . 
it 's always that way until it 's too late . 
until they 're older 
and then they look back . 
it 's true . 
what are some other questions they have , 
i 'm not sure . 
i know my parents are growing up , 
i guess they never spent much time watching t v . 
in fact , i 've never seen my mom turn on the t v , 
we did n't really have one . 
and they spent a lot of time outside with us and stuff , 
but my dad had his own business 
and it was easier for them to do that , 
but , i do n't know , 
i guess i did n't realize what a luxury it was at the time . 
i think kids now a days are raised on t v . 
t v -s a surrogate parent . 
that 's a good way to put it . 
and not a very good one at that . 
that 's a pretty good way to put it . 
if you had kids , what kind of things do you hope to do ? . 
i hope to , of course , be able to teach them right from wrong . 
i work part-time also , 
a lot of people that i work for are , mothers that stay home . 
and they do a lot of volunteer work 
and they 're real active in the community 
and they do a lot of things with their kids that they would n't ordinarily be able to do if they were working . 
and i 'd like to be able to do that . 
i 'd like to be able to stay home and be able to spend time with my kids . 
do volunteer work and , be in clubs and stuff , 
i agree . 
i hope that happens , in my case . 
but , i think that 's for the few and far between . 
i think that probably ninety percent of the , parents out there are probably working parents . 
and i do n't really see that trend changing much , 
if anything , i think , there 's going to be fewer and fewer single income families . 
i know . 
and what 's sad about that is day cares end up instilling values in your kids . that may not necessarily be consistent with yours . 
i do n't even know what day care is really all about because i never went to a day care center , 
i never had that kind of experience . 
i do n't even remember them being around when we were little . 
it seems like that 's a big trend in the last ten years . 
day cares have popped up and become a lot bigger part of the kids ' lives . 
it 's like a home away from home for a lot of them . 
i guess we could ring this off since we 've exhausted all of our ideas , 
we seem to agree . 
i think this is a good closing point . 
it was really nice talking to you . 
you too , 
i wish you the best . 
you too . 
there we are . 
tell me , 
what are some of the things that you did with your children when they were growing up ? 
when they were little , we did lots of reading and playing and going to parks , and things of that sort , 
and , i had two boys . 
they were both interested in things like model rockets , 
so we would go to the football field and set off model rockets . 
i have two boys also . 
my children are swimmers , 
and so as they were growing up much of our normal life outside of school and everything revolved around their swimming . 
so , in order to have a reason for being there , especially as they got older , i became involved in it too 
so we were always together at their meets . 
that 's good . 
mine were not terribly sporting . 
they both did t-ball and soccer in grade school , 
but neither one of them carried on the sports after that . 
the boys tried those , 
they started swimming when they were seven and eight , 
and they really loved it , 
one is in college , 
also swims in college , 
and the other will continue to swim in college , 
and they 're fortunate , 
they even made nationals . 
wonderful ! 
that 's great ! 
and so we would drive up to see that whenever it was reasonably close , 
but , we did a lot of things , 
and we tried to do things both together and individually with the children , 
we live near washington , 
so we would always go in for the museums . 
that 's always a big thing . 
and one of my children is also a musician 
so one of the things that we did with him a lot was to go t- , concerts with him . 
and my other child is big into tropical fish , 
so our whole family , we take family trips to different places to visit fish stores or go to fish shows , 
we did n't have any avid activities like that , 
they were interested in a lot of things , 
but nothing to quite that depth , i guess . 
i do n't think we 've missed a fish store on the entire northeast coast of the united states . 
we did go to things like aquariums and natural history museums and zoos , and all of those things that one does with kids , 
in fact , it 's funny , 
our vacations have always been as they 've gotten older . 
when they were younger we would go to the beach , 
one summer we went up to new england 
and we went to the marble quarries up there to see that , 
so we did try , 
and of course we learned too . 
and , i do n't know , 
when they were very young i did not work . 
i started working half-time when they were at the nursery school . 
and i started working part-time when they were in junior high school and high school , 
and i worked in the school system , 
and now i work a full school day , 
but that leaves me off on holidays and summers . 
i think , they need you in different ways . 
that 's true , 
you want to be around for the crisis and things like that , 
but it 's not quite so much the hand-holding and peanut butter and jelly making . 
that 's right . 
that 's for sure . 
that 's for sure , 
do you have any feelings as to the trends that you see ? 
the one trend is that with so many more women choosing professional careers , there are fewer of them home in the afternoons , 
and i do n't think it needs to be the mothers , 
but i think it would be nice if some of the parents would be around for a few more hours . 
it was funny , 
i can remember , 
and my mother and i have talked about it , to how important it was when i came home from school . 
it was n't really conversation , 
but there were always things that just tumbled out . 
when it 's not there they miss it . 
i think that 's true , 
but i also think that 's , at least in my experience , truer of girls than boys . 
even when i was there , my boys did n't share all that much with me , 
and certainly not to the extent i did with my mother . 
i realize that , 
but it 's funny , 
they do n't always do it , 
but occasionally they do , 
and when they do , there 's a reason for it , that they 're sharing it , 
and at least i 've wanted to be available , when for some reason , they were bouncing something off of me . because it was something that was bothering them or they were concerned about , 
who would they ask ? 
that 's right . 
or what would they do ? 
that 's exactly right . 
but it 's been interesting particularly because the society in which we live , families are separated . 
you do n't have grandparents near by or aunts and uncles . 
i grew up in a situation where on weekends we were always visiting relatives . 
i did too . 
we were close to my maternal grandparents and close enough to visit my paternal grandparents quite often . 
they were fifty miles away 
every weekend there was some visiting somewhere . 
and it was sort of an italian family , 
it 's not that constant thing where you are on intimate terms with cousins . 
when my kids were quite small we lived close to both sets of grandparents 
and they saw them a lot , 
but they do n't have any cousins , 
or they did n't , 
their cousins are about ten years younger . 
so they never played together or anything . 
and i just sort of think yeah 
and there are only two of them 
and they did n't live in the same town . 
you do n't have the families , to take up the gap . 
that 's right . 
and so the kids in some ways are suffering a little bit , in that the family issues that get discussed , and all these are very important parts of them growing up , 
so we try to do it as well as we can . 
we keep in close contact with grandparents and talk over the phone , 
and we do , 
but although it 's not the same , we are , 
and that 's part of teaching too , is what a family is like , 
because then how do they pattern their own ? 
everyone makes its own model , 
but it seems that there should be some continuity , 
and it 's helpful to have things that become family traditions , and that sort of thing . 
we have had this tradition that we always go out before christmas and cut our own tree . 
and that 's always been a little bit of a tradition that we 've had . 
this year , it was hard with our son now being in college . 
so this was one thing that we were n't able to do this year , 
but we did that from the time the children were young enough to realize what it was until our older son went away to college . 
that 's the kind of thing that they will remember , though . 
ours finally disintegrated . 
it was a christmas tree that had a little trinket for each day , that was pinned on the date , 
and then you took it off and put it on the tree , 
so at the end you had a decorated tree . 
a friend of mine from denmark hand appliqu3ed one for each child . 
and it finally got moth-eaten , 
we threw it way last year . 
how nice . 
and they look today as new as they did when she gave them to us , 
and there 's a ring 
and you buy a present , 
i see . 
and you wrap the present up , 
and the presents have gone from the days when they were very young to a little box of band-aids and an eraser and things , 
how cute . 
i 'm sure he appreciated that ! 
it was the equivalent of a christmas present . 
and it was fun , 
but that 's a tradition 
and those will be passed on to them when they get married and leave . 
you were saying what other trends are there , 
and one just occurred to me because i was editing a book about it recently , 
and that is the trend in a lot of lower class areas , for the grandmothers to be raising the children . 
a lot of it is due to the fact that the mothers are on drugs . 
and the broken families . 
as i said , living in an area of washington , d c . we definitely see this , 
and it 's that grandmother figure , not only raising her own children , but raising children from the streets , too , frequently . 
we had a sociologist at the center where i work who was writing a book on multigeneration matriarchies where the tradition in the family has been for a teenaged daughter to have a baby while she 's still living at home with the mother 
we 've been studying this in our school , that not the symptoms , it 's one of the ways that young girls feel that they are maturing , 
it 's a rite of passage . 
myrna , how do you get your news ? 
most of it is from the radio and also from the news programs that we watch in the afternoon . 
we usually watch the local news and the , national news both . 
i 'm pretty much the same . 
i 'm a graduate student 
and i read a lot for school 
and i find i have no patience to really read a newspaper because i 'm reading so much all the time . 
and i really enjoy just sitting down and watching a news broadcast . 
you can always get up and leave that . 
that 's true . 
i just do n't seem to have time to sit down and read the paper . either 
by the time i get home from work , it 's already time for the news to come on . 
that 's right , 
so , it 's so much easier to sit there 
and besides , i can be doing other things and still listen to the news . 
that 's right , 
i agree . 
a lot of times i eat while i 'm watching the news . 
the same thing . 
what did you think about the coverage over in the persian gulf ? 
i think they did a great job . 
i thought so too , 
for a while when we were really interested we saw it all the time . 
some of the stations carried it for twenty-four hours for a couple of days there 
and then the special reports and the extended news coverage i thought was really good . 
and you could always find some channel that had something on 
but you did n't necessarily have to watch the same thing all the time . 
just news , 
that 's right , 
they do have television monitors stationed throughout our buildings , 
and they used to have a program called t news , and just updates of different things that were going on within t i . 
well when all the mess in the persian gulf came about they started carrying c n n . 
they have had so much good response from this , that t i now has c n n on all the time . 
that 's great . 
so , we can always run upstairs and get a quickie update on what 's going on , if we really want to . 
or if you have a break in the middle of the day , you take a coffee break you can always stay informed . 
that 's really good . 
i 've found that when i went back to graduate school i just did n't have the money to rent a cable t v line , or whatever . 
so i do n't get c n n which was a big disappointment . 
i used to watch , 
i 'm a college teacher 
and sometimes i teach in the evening 
so i 'll miss the evening news . 
and you could always catch a good news program at eight o'clock or nine o'clock on c n n . 
i think that really has changed the way i look at the news . 
we do n't get it either , 
we live out in the country , 
and we just do n't have it available out there where we are . 
but when we did have it that 's what we usually watched , was c n n 
and sometimes we 'd watch the weather stations . 
that 's same , 
when i had it , i watched it religiously for half an hour 
and then you could go on to do what else you wanted to do . 
i find i read very little , 
i do n't even get a regular newspaper 
i only live about a mile from where i go to school and work , 
i find i spend so little time in the car that i do n't really listen to the radio , 
i do n't , 
so television is my main new source . 
i get that too , because i 'm in a van pool , 
and i 'm in the van two hours a day 
to commute to work ? 
and in the morning i try to sleep because it 's dark . 
but in the afternoon i try to read 
so i can , not pay attention to what our driver is doing . 
and i 'm in the baltimore , washington area , 
and i know they do van pool a lot here from some of the outer areas , 
that 's necessary . 
are you in baltimore itself ? 
i am right outside baltimore . 
i am less than a mile from the baltimore line . 
and i go to a campus of the university of maryland that is just , less than a mile from my house . 
so i 'm actually in baltimore , 
you could say i 'm in baltimore . 
i have two kids over there . 
in baltimore ? 
in d c area . 
one works for the state department 
and her husband is in the navy 
and he 's stationed at bethesda 
that 's a really nice area , bethesda area . 
it 's funny , 
there 's a big difference between baltimore and washington , even though they 're so close . 
there 's only an hour , less than that between the two 
but there is a big difference in things like property values 
and the closer you get to , d c the more expensive it is . 
and the , different slant . 
washington , it really is an international city , where baltimore is hometown baltimore . 
most people have relocated to the washington area . 
i 'd rather have baltimore with the home town atmosphere . 
i like it a little bit better , too . 
it 's interesting though to meet different populations . 
being from pittsburgh originally , i 'm just now meeting different populations like chinese students and things 
and i find that really interesting to imagine , here is somebody that was in china , two years ago when all that was going on in , beijing . 
that 's an interesting perspective . 
but i really much like the hometown area , 
it 's funny , 
you can watch different news . 
i can watch washington news or baltimore news 
and i really do watch baltimore news . 
i do n't really bother with the washington station because it 's so far removed from what i 'm interested in . 
most of what they 're talking about in washington is the crime problems that they 're having there . 
it was just a big thing recently 
they 've had some terrible problems with hispanics , 
they had to impose a curfew in two of the areas in the washington suburbs . 
i heard about that . 
she 's big in the democratic party 
so that 's good , 
so she has good national ties , 
but she also was something like a state auditor or something like that before this position . 
she was a state auditor , 
i guess she was an auditor general or something like that for the district of columbia , at washington . 
and then she left that to get a position with the democratic party 
and now she ran for mayor , 
so fiscally she 's pretty tight , 
and she 's cleaning house 
you sort of feel sorry for a lot of the people there . 
from what i pick up on the news it 's a difficult process to get rid of a bad mayor . 
i know both of my kids did n't want to live anywhere around the downtown areas , 
they both moved way out . 
i think one of them lives in germantown 
and i ca n't remember where the other one lives . 
but germantown is a nice area . 
it 's a nice area . 
it means they have to drive a little bit , 
they might be car pooling too . 
do they car pool in ? 
are they driven by themselves . 
i think he carpools , 
because he 's got fairly regular hours since he came back , 
but they have probably been carpooling together , in fact , 
because she had been called back up , 
active duty . 
and then she was supposed to have gotten out of active duty as of last friday . 
so , i have n't talked to them this weekend , 
i do n't know what the situation is , 
they did n't call you for mother 's day ? 
we were gone . 
you were n't home ? 
we were n't home 
but she had called and left a message on our recorder 
but i had that from all my kids except for one . 
that 's good . 
i guess we should stop now . 
i thank you for calling , 
i have enjoyed it . 
i really do like this program because i get to talk to people from all over the united states , 
so do i , 
i 've become very aware of different political views because some of the things we have to discuss are very politically motivated or whatever , 
i really enjoyed it . 
it 's so funny when you live in one part of the country you only see that perspective . 
it 's interesting to see the wider world , 
so i enjoy it . 
thanks a lot , 
and . 
thank you , 
have you grown up in dallas , stephanie ? 
i 've only been here for the last ten years , 
where are you from ? 
i grew up most of my childhood in germany . 
in germany . 
we took a lot of vacations while we were there because everything was within driving distance . 
there 's a place i 'd like to visit . 
so we travelled all over europe . when i was very young . 
unfortunately , a little bit too young to really appreciate . 
that 's neat . 
i was grade school age . 
my husband took a bicycle tour about five months right after the second world war 
and so we 've seen lots of pictures of the beautiful , spots and , areas , 
that would be to me , a really nice vacation because i 'm not in physical shape for something like that , 
but i sure would work on it , if i had an opportunity like that . 
. 
that 's neat . 
what kind of vacations do you like ? 
my husband and i are scuba divers . 
. 
so , we both like to go to dive resorts . 
we went to hawaii on our honeymoon , 
and we dove there . 
but , we did about six dives while we were there . 
and we were originally planning on going to cayman last year 
but , we were n't able to get enough people together for the trip . 
we had to have eleven people for , this package deal . 
and we could n't get enough people together to go , 
so it ended up falling through . 
we were going to get a really good price . 
when our children were younger , we lived up in new jersey and used to like traveling into upstate new york and camping 
and we had a little collapsible sailboat and liked to sail and , that sort of thing , 
but we 've never really did any diving or anything . 
little bit of , water skiing . 
snorkeling ? 
but , not much of anything else . 
my husband and i both like water , 
so any vacation that we go on is usually , close to the ocean , or something like that . 
it 's got to be the water . 
when we were in jersey , we used to go down to the jersey beach a lot , and really enjoyed that a lot . 
they had , a really nice beach areas there . 
after we moved away from germany , we moved to new hampshire . 
and i lived there for seven years . 
i see . 
and i really enjoyed that because the mountains were real close , 
that 's a really pretty area , too . 
we like the white mountains 
and unfortunately , i did n't really get to go skiing much while i was there . 
i went skiing once . 
we loved the new jersey area , too , because the lakes were really pretty close , 
and then we were n't too for from the appalachian trail , 
we did quite a bit of hiking , which is kind of fun . 
are you a hiker , or not ? 
not so much ? 
not really so much . 
if there was some place that we went to where there was hiking involved , i would be happy to go hiking , 
but we never have really planned a vacation around places to go hiking . 
so your plans are try to find someplace to scuba dive . 
our next vacation will be scuba diving , 
i 'm sure . 
you have any children ? 
not yet . 
we had little children all the time , 
so some of the things are not quite as , adaptable . 
it 's a little more , difficult planning a vacation , when you have children . 
it is . 
you have to try to figure out kinds of things that you can do that they will enjoy , too , 
especially for small children 
i think the minimum age for diving would be probably about sixteen . 
eleven or twelve , i would think , probably 
but , maybe fifteen even . 
i know that one thing that happens to vacation trips now is that usually that try to involve some of the members of the family . 
we go wherever somebody is , that we have n't seen for a while . 
we just came back from grand rapids where we saw one of our sons graduate with his master 's degree in social work 
and so that was fun , 
and the summer we have a reunion in salt lake area up by park cities . where we 're going to camp for a week with as many members of a rather large reunion group as we can get together 
that sounds like a lot of fun . 
our family had a reunion last year that was kind of like that , too , 
that there were several hundred people 
and they all kind of met at a central place . 
i did n't go , 
but it would have been a nice vacation . 
we 've moved around enough so that we now have people in different parts of the country . 
i guess my favorite vacation idea would be to somehow figure out something kind of mobile where you could stop and sleep maybe like a small camper . 
we 've travelled in a big one . 
i hate them because they 're hard to jockey around , 
but maybe a pickup with the back on , 
or something like the volkswagen vanagon . 
i 've heard is really nice . 
so you could kind of sleep in it sometimes , 
but you would n't want to do it all the time . 
we have enough friends here and there , 
my dad has been talking for years about getting a fifth wheel and just picking up , 
he 's retired 
he 's in his sixties , 
and he would like to just get a fifth wheel and just travel across the country and spend a month here or a couple of weeks there , and just not , be settled anywhere , 
just , see the rest of the country . 
he does that quite a bit . 
he has n't lately , though because he 's been ill , 
but he 's been known to be gone for a month or two at a time 
and he 'll say , this is my itinerary . 
i 'm going here , here and here 
and i 'll be back in about two months . 
there are a lot of neat places to visit in america , 
that 's for sure . 
i have n't been much to the south , 
i have n't been in georgia or florida or mississippi or alabama . 
i guess those are the only states i have not visited . 
johnstown and in that area is just really neat , 
have you been to a lot of the different historical sites ? 
we took a trip around to the civil war battle grounds and things back in nineteen sixty when it was the centennial or something , 
i believe it was . 
had about three kids then i think , 
but that was a really fun , interesting trip . 
we read bruce book before we went , 
and , so we were ready to look up the places we read about . 
i think right now while my husband and i do n't have any kids we 'll probably take as many vacations as we can doing things like scuba diving and adventurous types of things , 
it was really interesting . 
and then eventually , when we have kids , 
his folks did a lot of traveling across country . 
they went to the grand canyon and did things like that . 
camping is fun with kids . 
once they get a little bigger , not teeny tiny ones , 
but , even some little ones do pretty good 
but when they get a little bigger they can help , 
that 's a fun way , to , cut costs 
and it 's enjoyable , too . 
very restful . 
i do enjoy camping . 
i find the outdoors very relaxing and kind of a change . 
as long as i have a shower nearby , i 'm fine . and electricity . 
i 'm with you . 
i need my creature comforts , too . 
it was great to talk to you . 
it was nice talking to you , too , beth . 
see you later . 
do you vote regular ? . 
i do , 
i try and vote in every single election . 
every one . 
but that 's just , in the past about six years . 
before that i really did n't pay any attention at all . 
that 's me . 
i 've never paid any attention to voting . 
you have n't ? 
i did n't use to , 
because i get so angry about what goes on 
unless you have something to do with it . 
but the problem is , that i am very liberal politically 
and so i hardly ever have anybody that wins that i vote for . 
liberal , 
what do you mean by liberal . 
liberal politically , 
i 'm pretty left wing democrat , 
i do n't know anything about politics . 
you do n't ? 
what 's the main difference between republicans and democrats ? 
there 's a lot of them , 
it depends on what issue you 're talking about . 
but democrats on a lot of issues are more liberal than republicans , 
it 's kind of hard to say now , especially after desert storm , 
but i think back in the times when my political opinions were being formed during the vietnam war and stuff , the republicans were more what they called hawks , which is more aggressive in war and more pro war , and pro aggression 
and the democrats were the doves , 
they were more for peace . 
and i 'm not sure how much that holds true anymore , 
and you vote for the democrats 
usually . 
and democrats usually are more supportive of public assistance programs , 
the big republican thing is that they vote for less government , 
they want less government involvement , in society 
and so they 're less apt to vote in more aid to people , 
or more they 're less apt to vote in programs that involve the government running things . 
have you ever voted at all ? 
i never have . 
you have n't ? 
how old are you ? 
i 'm twenty-six . 
i do n't know that much about it . 
i do n't keep up on it 
and i do n't feel like i have enough knowledge on it to pick the right person . 
so that 's what they need , 
they said something to improve voting . 
if they could make it easier to find out what 's going on . 
do you know what i mean ? 
i ca n't even remember who ran for president against bush . 
i think it was that woman , 
was n't it a woman . 
it was dukakis , from massachusetts . 
dukakis . 
did n't he have a woman , 
or was that reagan . 
there was a woman that was running for vice president for a while . 
ferraro . 
ferraro . 
that was a while ago , 
that was a couple elections ago , 
that 's okay . 
that 's what i mean , 
i did n't know what the difference between dukakis and bush was . 
i did n't know anything about bush or dukakis . 
what do you think about what you see on t v about them in the news or on the ads , 
i do n't remember anything about dukakis , 
you do n't ? 
but they 're all saying that they 're going to do whatever is best for their campaign anyway . 
that 's what i mean , 
i do n't know , 
in school they did n't teach you about the government , not really . 
you did n't get any government classes ? 
it 's really hard too , 
what do you believe in , 
what do you believe in , 
they do n't take any stands on anything . 
they kind of say what do you want me to believe . 
or they word it so that it 's really hard to tell where they 're standing on certain issues . 
i know how they do it . 
with the abortion issues and stuff . 
they have to kind of take a stand on some things , like abortion and things like that , 
so that 's kind of , how i judge . 
there 's a few things where they have to say , like abortion or gun control , 
or let me see , 
i do n't trust t v as much , 
but newspaper articles can show how they voted in the past 
it all depends again on who 's writing it and who they 're for , because they can slant that too . 
also the politicians put out what makes them look good anyway . 
and everybody 's got stuff they do n't want known . 
everybody 's got a secret . 
i 'm sorry i did n't have much knowledge . 
that 's okay . 
i do n't even remember this being on there . 
what would it take , 
this is really good actually , to talk to somebody who has n't voted , 
incentive ? 
what kind of stuff would you like them to do so that you would know more about it . 
send stuff in the mail or have it at the library 
i guess that would be good , 
i 'm sure they 've got it at the library . 
if i get to the library . 
i 've got two babies , 
do you ? 
that will tie you down a little bit . 
but i do n't know . 
or do you feel like it 's not really going to make that much difference if you do n't vote 
i know if enough people think like that it would make a difference , if people stopped thinking like that . 
a lot of people , they 'll vote the way their family votes , 
since you 're democrat ? then your kids or whatever will follow you and just vote democrat , 
not in my family . 
we 're really independent . 
all split . 
but a lot of families do that . 
i know a lot of wives feel like they have to vote the way that their husbands vote . 
and that kind of keeps from getting a lot of issues resolved . 
i lie . . 
i do n't know , 
if i did understand politics i probably would vote more , 
or when gary hart was running , a lot of women would have voted for him just because he was nicer looking , 
hart ? 
not that i think he was good looking , 
but , he was young . 
and then , i did n't think that was right , because he may have been a good president , or whatever . 
what , 
he had an affair , 
and it just threw him out of the whole running . 
and a lot of people go by their personal life when they vote 
which i guess if you got turmoil in your personal life , you 're going to let it come into work 
i think everybody does , 
it just depends on how well you can hide it . 
that 's very true , 
criminal or something like that 's different , 
but otherwise . 
what effect does that have on him running for president . 
do you know what i mean ? 
it 's all so secretive , 
we really do n't see the true person anyway . 
that 's right . 
i think that 's having a big effect on how poorly that the country is being run , that the people that want to get elected are turning it into a popularity contest by advertising the things that really do n't have anything to do with how well they do the job . 
but they 're trying to find an excuse not to deal with the issues that people really want to know about , because on those issues you have to say yes or no . 
and if they do n't say yes or no , then maybe somebody will vote for them that would n't have if they had come down on the wrong side . 
do you know what i 'm saying ? 
so they just try and make it a personal thing , 
if you remember any of the t v commercials from the last presidential campaign , they all had pictures of bush walking around with his grandchildren 
and even from reagan , it looks like a mcdonald 's commercial . 
that 's about what it looked like . 
what did you think of reagan as a president ? 
i just thought he was really inept . 
i do n't think he did anything at all . 
they just kind of sat him up there like a puppet 
do you think he won from carter because of the hostages that were held at that time ? 
i think that was part of it , 
the economic problems that the country was having at the time and the recession and stuff , 
people just had a picture of carter as not being real capable , 
i thought he was great . 
i thought carter was good too , 
did you ? 
i always liked him , 
i thought he was great at the time 
and i just could n't get over the fact that reagan beat him . 
i just could n't believe that he got voted out . 
let 's see , 
that 's been about ten years ago ? 
so i was only fifteen or sixteen , 
but i remember carter 
and i liked him . 
you did ? 
have you heard stuff about him lately , 
do you know what he 's doing ? 
i sure do n't . 
he is really active still politically . 
he 's been overseas . 
how long have they been recycling there in virginia ? . 
actually quite a while . 
i 've lived here for six years 
and , can you hold on just a second ? . 
i 'm sorry 
i must have got the other line cut off . 
so , they 've been doing it for a while now 
i live in an apartment 
there it is , 
hold on . 
sorry about that . 
you 're okay , 
they have facilities here in my apartment complex for recycling paper only . 
i 've been recycling for maybe about two years now and , at another public facility where they have recycling of glass aluminum and paper . 
have you recycled plastic also ? 
and that 's what i do n't understand exactly why they do n't have that option . 
we have out here 
up until just this last year there was n't any really good way , 
they had some bends , around that we could find and put them in 
but not all that many , 
it was n't very well advertised 
but recently the refuse department is working on getting a system going where we will actually have a bend that we put things in for recycling these other things 
so it should be good , 
i think it 's a marvelous idea when i just think of the papers that i dump out 
i just hate to think about it . 
where i work they also have recycling there of all white paper and of cans also 
so a lot of people right at the vending machines , they have receptacles that you can just pop your cans in 
and near the , xerox machines they have places for your , paper , 
i keep a little box at my desk , 
and as i 'm using the white paper i just throw it right in there , 
and then they have someone that comes around and pick it up every afternoon which is an excellent idea , at work because i know the amount they go through there 
that 's neat . 
that 's right . 
i guess one of the things that needs to happen is we need to be better informed about it , 
there needs to be more public service programs or something that would let us know and helps us to become enthused about it because of what is happening 
i would agree with that . 
i 've seen a few things but not very much , really 
and i think that 's a shame 
they need to do a little more , 
i 'd like to know , for instance , when they say plastic , all plastic , what kind of plastic , can you put all together 
or , is there some reason not to , 
maybe they just sort it after they get it and throw out what they ca n't use , 
i do n't know 
but i 'd be glad to organize it , if they 'd tell me what it is i 'm doing because that would be really helpful . 
i agree with you there , 
their aluminum cans is for children 's hospital , for a burn fund 
that 's great . 
that gives , you a little bit of incentive there . 
and before even at work , before they started the recycling plan , which at work they 've only been doing since january first of this year , i had had everyone in my department recycling 
and i would have them drop their cans off in my office 
saving them for you . 
and then i would haul them here to this place for the children 's hospital fund which got people really going into it , 
i think that 's , right . 
i think helping us be more enthusiastic about it , helping us maybe using the money for something special that would be like paying off the national debt . 
there you go . 
making sure . 
that 's for sure . 
i think there needs to be a little bit more in the area of , advertisement , and letting you understand , more of what it is you 're doing , why you 're doing it , how it 's done and , what happens to it because i think that would help a lot . 
and i 'm sure in the near future i would think they would be coming out with more , 
i 've seen a definite trend towards more recycling , everywhere even at mcdonald 's with their use of no , foam containers anymore . 
i 'm glad , to see some of these things , i think . 
i think it is getting more advertisement . 
people are becoming more conscience all the time that it 's necessary to do , and that we need to somehow get away from the fact that we have to have everything individually wrapped , 
i think that 's true . 
that 's about my some on recycling 
but i enjoyed talking to you . 
i did too . 
do you have any pets now ? 
i sure do , 
i have a cat and a dog named joey . 
joey , 
the dog is joey ? 
he 's the little boy pomeranian . 
and we just got a new addition to the family , 
we also have a fish . 
it 's a mud dog . 
i beg your pardon . 
it 's a mud dog . 
it 's a cross between a catfish and a salamander . 
did you all catch it , 
we have a cat , stripper . 
the mud dog . 
did you catch the fish ? 
we had a friend give it to us . 
and it 's all alone in that aquarium . 
we 'd like to get him a friend 
but we have n't found one yet . 
so how about you , 
do you have any pets ? 
at the present time i have two dogs . 
what kind ? 
an english setter , 
that 's the white dog with the feathers 
and it has yellow spots on it which they call liver spots . 
and that 's a male . 
and i have a wonderful female lab , black lab . 
how long have you had them . 
quite a long time probably five or six years 
and unfortunately the black lab that 's a female , it 's the most wonderful animal we 've ever had , 
when she was about three years old we noticed that she was having problems limping and so forth 
and , she has hip dysplasia . 
and it 's in that breed . 
but now i think there are tests that can be conducted to tell whether or not the puppies have it . 
i do n't know , 
apparently they 've been so inbred , or what , 
is that right ? 
i 'm not sure that 's the situation , 
for those dogs that are registered 
and if you should have one that also has hip dysplasia you can not breed it . 
i had no idea , 
i did n't even know that . 
but she 's wonderful . 
our dog , joey , has a back problem . 
what are the symptoms ? 
he 's got a bad back 
but he 's seven , 
i guess he 's almost eight years old . 
he does n't like to roll over . 
but otherwise , he can jump just as long as he does n't bend a certain way . 
. i have had just wonderful luck with this lab , 
let 's see , 
winter before last we would bring her in when it was cold . 
the next morning you want to take them out , 
i could n't get her up without picking her up which it was pretty hard to do at eighty pounds . 
i bet . 
if i allowed her to not get up on her own , it 'd be two o'clock in the afternoon . 
my son 's college roommate , is a vet 
and he said let 's give her some race horse shots . 
i 'm kind of glad to be able to tell people about this , because you all the time run into people with problems . 
that 's when we lived in oklahoma , 
so he gave this dog a series of , 
they give it to race horses to get rid of cartilage , 
and it 's called . 
anyway , it 's a series of six shots , once a week , 
do you have to give those ? 
i could have , 
but i ca n't give a shot . 
believe me , 
i understand . 
i took her from enid , oklahoma to oklahoma city every week for six weeks . 
and after the second shot she was significantly better . 
then i did n't notice any improvement till after the sixth one . 
and he said a booster every year or two maybe every six months or something like that 
and when i notice in the winter , when it 's worse it 's cold weather and so forth then i have gotten a booster for her . 
but not many people in this part of the country know anything about . 
i 've had to get it from oklahoma . 
they 've heard about it 
but they 've really never used it . 
i 've never heard anything about it either . 
i think german shepherds do it , and probably large dogs . 
and it 's just wonderful . 
is he an inside dog also , 
or does he just run out in the backyard ? 
is he fenced in ? 
we 're living now in an area where we 're in the woods 
and we take walks . 
i just do n't let them go away from me , 
but we take walks through the woods twice a day . 
that 's nice . 
and i can over do it on her . 
but anyway , at least she can go 
and she 's not limping along and all that . 
tell me about your cat . 
stripper he started out being a little orphan , 
and we took him in 
and he 's about two years old now 
and he loves his treats , 
both joey and stripper get treats . 
and let 's see , 
and is stripper an inside cat , or outside ? 
he 's outside 
and he 's got a way to get in , 
he 's got free access of a window we like to keep open . 
so , he gets to go in and out whenever he wants to . 
of course . 
that 's nice , 
joey , on the other hand is a little different . 
he has to go out whenever we ask him 
and when we ask him he barks . 
he 'll either bark for food , 
or he 'll bark to go out 
and he 'll tell you which one he wants . 
he 's been through obedience school . 
he has been trained 
and you 've kept it up , have n't you . 
it is wonderful , 
i have some neighbors across the field , 
we have a very nice kennel and everything 
i just wanted to let them be able to be free for a while . 
so i kept watch and never let them get away , 
but now every couple weeks , one would slip away 
and my neighbor said to me , i noticed those dogs are so well trained , 
anytime they hear your voice , they come . 
so that made me very proud . 
have we been talking five minutes ? 
i 'm not for sure . 
i 'm not either , 
i think maybe we have , 
it sounds like you keep your pets for pleasure . 
have you ever done this before ? 
i have n't ever called . 
i 've put in the paper work , 
i just never made the call . 
i did n't know if they stop you when the time is up 
they do n't , 
i glanced at the clock when we started 
and i think it 's been probably about five and a half minutes or something . 
but one day i was talking to a lady about gardening 
and i love gardening 
and she did too , 
and , after about twelve minutes or something , the recording came on and said that was the end of the tape . 
at least you know you did your part . 
but it 's been so much fun too talk . 
how did you get into this . 
my best friend in virginia 's daughter , is a part of this project in texas . 
i see . 
and so she knew that i had the time and would enjoy it . 
that 's true . 
do you work . 
i do . 
and probably just got home . 
and i understand also they want men . 
i was going to tell you the same thing . 
they 're really looking for a lot more men to participate . 
my husband does . 
does he . 
i 've got some applications , 
i need to hand them out . 
but this is a great project , that they 're working on 
and it 's really going to lead the way for a lot of applications and development in the voice area . 
i think so too , 
and i have n't helped them out on men particularly , 
but my husband probably has made a few more calls than i have because i tend to not make them around dinner time , 
i try to make them during the day , 
but nobody 's home . 
this is the perfect time for me . 
maybe i 'll get you next time . 
it so much fun to talk to you . 
have a good one . 
you too , 
do you use credit cards ? 
not very often . 
the ones we use is visa 
and we always try to pay it back at the end of the month . 
so it does n't get the credit , 
if you 're going to use credit cards you need to use that policy do n't you ? . 
otherwise , you end up paying so much more for your merchandise that it 's not a very good idea . 
that 's right . 
do you have a lot of credit cards ? 
i have a lot of them 
but i do n't use them very much , though . 
i use them mostly for big things , like maybe , sometimes tuition if i 'm short , to go ahead and get it and then try to get it saved back as quick as i can . 
the other thing , i think if you do get overextended a little bit , you need to be sure and pay it off more than one at a time , because i think you could run forever paying what they require . 
just goes on and on . 
which is what they want . 
i think a lot of people go in debt because they think , i can just charge it , 
but really if they do n't have the money then , they are n't going to have it in a month , 
that 's true . 
they make the mistake of , pushing all their cards . 
there are times , when it 's very useful , like emergency trip , or something . 
the money will be available , 
but it 's not immediately handy . 
i think they 're very helpful , 
plus the fact that it 's helpful not to have to carry a lot of money sometimes . 
but you really do need to be very responsible about it 
or you end up in deep trouble . 
i made that mistake when i first got a job 
it took me quite a while to pay them off , 
so after that i decided , i 'm not going to use them at all , and just try to pay cash for everything 
and that worked for a while 
and then we got married 
so we decided if we used them we would pay them off as we go . 
that can be very handy under those kind of circumstances . 
the other thing about them is too , you really need to get some and use them because if you have never used them , and have n't developed a credit thing . it stops you from doing a lot of things . 
that 's true , 
so they have become a very vital part of our monetary system , over the last few years . 
but it 's true , 
you have to be very careful 
or you end up going in the deep end 
and an awful lot of people are in trouble . 
and he makes calls to people who have problems credit problems , that are trying to work out 
and . poor thing he comes home very depressed every night , because the world has so many problems of that sort , 
it 's a really big problem and takes mature people to treat it , 
so that it 's a real advantage to you , instead of a disadvantage . 
i think the way the tax system was , they encouraged people to use credit cards with a big write off at the end of the year . 
it did n't do you any good now , does it ? 
you can not write off your interest . 
even before it probably was n't , though , because you did n't get to claim anywhere near what you ended up paying . 
other than that , i do n't have too much on credit cards 
it 's good to talk to you . 
you , too . 
for calling . 
now . 
do you exercise regularly . 
i sure do . 
what do you do ? 
i ride a bicycle quite a bit and work out with free weights . 
i love to ride a bicycle . 
i live right near white rock lake , 
so i try to ride , about ten to twenty miles a day . 
but , i have n't been doing so well this year , 
that 's good . 
last year i went an was exercising on a bike for a while 
and when i 'd gotten back i had gotten some sun that day , 
the sweat had built up on me and built up under my skin and caused me to peel . 
it was the sweating , not the burn 
that 's weird . 
that was wild . 
but , i do n't exercise now , 
i just had a baby three months ago , 
i have n't really gotten back into exercising . 
but i exercised real good for a couple of years . 
it was aerobics and lifting weights three nights a week 
and it was running three nights a week . 
what 's your motivation ? 
what 's my motivation ? 
a friend of mine , always pushing me . 
this was in louisiana . 
and she would push , 
she was , let 's go do it , 
and she would n't take for an answer . 
was it for health , or , to look good ? 
i just wanted to look good , 
it was n't really health related . 
it was just a side benefit . 
because i 'm not big or anything , 
but i 'm not in great shape , 
but when i worked out , i got in pretty good shape . 
i did n't build up muscle , though , 
i just got real good and toned . 
i do n't think women look good with muscles . 
up to a point . 
up to a point , 
it 's just some of those women that come up there looking like arnold schwarzenegger 's sister just does n't get it . 
what was the other question , 
let 's see , 
do you do it as a task 
or do you enjoy working out . 
i guess it 's a task 'cause i ca n't make myself do it lately . 
i think i enjoy it sometimes 
and there 's other times when i just get tired of it 
and i feel like i 'm obligated to do it , because i 've been doing it 
so i should keep up . 
you do n't want to lose yourself . 
and there 's some days it 's the hardest thing in the world to get started . 
how old are you ? 
i 'm twenty-seven . 
so you 're still young . 
still young , 
getting older . 
we all are , 
if you keep working out when you 're young though , when you get older your body 's not going to look as bad . 
i seen an old woman today , 
she was about eighty 
and she looked so good , 
she was standing just as straight and tall 
and she had a small waist 
you know , how some older women will get the big bulge right in the middle . 
she did n't have that at all . 
her lips were a little bit wide , 
back in her time , they liked women with big hips anyway 
so she may be keeping that on purpose , 
i notice if you stay in shape you do n't age as bad , 
i go to school , too , at night 
and last semester i had stopped working out 'cause i hurt myself and started smoking a lot , 
those kind of things age you more . 
smoking ages you quick , 
it puts those little wrinkles around your lips . 
and then it just kind of feeds itself . 
you smoke , 
you get winded . 
i smoke a pack a day 
i finally quit because all i was doing was going down hill fast . 
i ca n't quit smoking , 
i 've tried . 
i was telling a friend of mine that i 'd be almost as bad as being an alcoholic , 
i ca n't quit smoking . 
i 've tried , 
i just ca n't do it . 
i quit when i was pregnant with my kids , 
but as soon as i had them , right back to it . 
right back to them . 
that was the only reason i quit . 
i did n't want to . 
and i do n't want to quit smoking , 
i enjoy that . 
i said i have very few vices , 
i 'll keep this one 
thank you . 
but did you ever go to one of those health clubs or anything ? 
i went to health club a few years ago , 
and now i work out at home , because my schedule with school and work , i do n't have time to get down to one . 
there used to be one that was a twenty-four hour that i used to go to 
but i actually prefer to work out alone . 
i like to work out with people , 
i need competition , is what i need . 
i 've got to have somebody to compete with , 
or i do n't want to do anything . 
i would n't mind working out with a friend and stuff 
but when you get into some of health clubs where you just stand around and wait . 
i like to start , get it done and get out of there . 
are you married or anything ? 
get your girlfriend to work out with you . 
a lot of women like that . 
i 'd love it if my husband would ask me to work out with him . 
he does n't work out very often . 
course , he do n't need to . 
he 's small 
and he works as a laborer on the railroad . 
so he 's building his muscles up all day , 
he does n't have to do anything . 
he can eat like a horse , too . 
and he do n't gain it like i do . 
you have to . 
you can gain too much weight . 
i gained a little bit too much , 
with my first little boy , i did gain a lot of weight , 
i got about fifty pounds overweight with him 
and i did n't loose it until two years ago 
and then i got pregnant and ruined that , 
just have to start all over . 
actually , like i say , it ai n't as bad this time , because i was in shape when i got pregnant . 
i was n't overweight when i got pregnant with him , 
i just was n't in shape . 
i do n't know the difference 
some people are a little bit fanatical about it . 
about weight ? 
and about , working out and fitness , 
exercise . 
i like to work out to look good and stay in shape 
and i know it 's good for me , 
but people that live for it and eat a bunch of different pills , and , all that kind of stuff , it gets a little bit obsessive . 
that 's what my friend did . 
she was with the wheat germ and all the vitamins and everything else 
even with her taking all those expensive vitamins and stuff , we stayed right on the same track with each other 
developing and everything . 
what is it ? 
steroids . 
steroids , 
there 's really bad for you . 
i was trying to say hemorrhoids , , 
i was trying to say hormones . 
hormones . 
hormones , 
steroids . 
but , i stay from that crap . 
it 's too dangerous . 
i could just see hair start growing out of my upper lip or something . 
i had a friend whose brother did steroids 
and as soon as he stopped working out he just ballooned out . 
it all turned to fat 
and he just , really looked bad . 
i did n't know it did that . 
i do n't know if it does to everybody , 
just that 's how it affected him . 
but i 've been wanting to get me a bike . 
i 've been wanting to get a ten speed to ride around . 
i 'm scared to run , for dogs . 
course i know dogs can get you on a bike too , 
at least you got a chance to out run them that way . 
i do n't like to run myself . 
i 've thought about it several times 
and i like to move a little faster and cover more ground . 
they 've come up that running is not as good for you as they thought it was . 
i would think it would be hard on your legs and your joints and stuff . 
it 's real hard on your legs 
and it 's hard on women . 
and it just makes stuff move down . 
but i like jogging , 
i do n't mind that . 
i can get out and do that , as long as it 's not hot . 
if it 's hot , you ca n't do that . 
but i love to run in the rain , 
just be careful not to slide . 
but you ca n't ride your bike at all in the rain , can you . 
you ca n't , 
it 's dangerous . 
you slide . 
at least maybe some of these mountain bikes you could 
but a regular ten speed with those skinny tires , you slide all over the place . 
when i did ride my friend 's bike , that one time i do n't know what i was trying to do . 
i was trying to make a u turn 
and i never could make a u turn in a bike , 
i can do it in my car , 
but i tried to do it on that ten speed and wrecked 
and i told her a dog was chasing me . 
but i wrecked it into the curb . 
i did n't hurt it too bad . 
she had some kind of fender thing going over the back tire , i think . 
but . 
anyway , it 's been nice talking to you . 
good luck with the new kid . 
thank you , 
she 's good . 
anyway , have fun exercising . 
what kind of painting are you planning to do ? 
i have wallpaper in both of my bathrooms right now which is really pretty disgusting . 
and it 's a rent house 
and i decided it 's too expensive to rewallpaper 
so i decided i 'm going to paint . 
and i 've been buying some magazines and stuff and looking at different ways to paint . 
and i 'm thinking about maybe sponge painting them . either that or maybe rag rolling . to give it kind of a country look . 
what would be interesting . 
i 've never done any of those fancy kinds of paint treatments , 
but they look very interesting 
and you get some beautiful effects with them . 
one of the books that i bought , where it 's describing the sponge painting , said you can layer different colors 
i saw one that was kind on an ecru undercoat 
and then it had , a little bit darker sort of peachy color , 
and in between there was sort of a rust put on very sparingly . 
and it gave the impression of very old weathered stucco . 
what i 'm trying to do is i 've got yellow tile in both the bathrooms 
so i want something that 's going to tie that together 
i 'm going to put wood in there . 
that should be nice . 
so it 's going to have kind of a country look . 
and i have n't even decided as far as what kind of paint to buy . 
i do n't have an actual instruction book 
so i 'm really in kind of the beginning stages right now . 
it 's going to be a big experiment . 
i was about to say , you ought to experiment on at least a small part of it before you just tackle the whole thing . 
because you might find that it 's beyond what you 're willing to put into it . although i think it could turn out really nice . 
i have n't ever done fancy painting 
but i sure did my share of just regular painting . 
i 've painted several houses , inside . 
i , never painted the outside . 
inside . 
what kind of paint do you normally use ? 
we used a latex wall paint and then a semigloss enamel for the woodwork 
and my job was mostly the woodwork . 
my husband would paint the walls and ceilings with the rollers 
and i got to do all of the masking tape and then all of the little fine trim work , where i 'd use a small brush and try to keep the paint from dripping on the windows and things like that . 
only one of our bathroom has a window in it 
so i 'm hoping that it wo n't be too much of a problem . 
i was going to ask if you planned to paint over it or try to strip it . 
i 'm planning on taking it off . 
i have heard that they 've got these steamers you can rent now , which make it much easier to get wallpaper off . 
i tried to get wallpaper off once twenty years ago with just a scraper and wet sponge 
and it took forever . 
i would not recommend that method . 
if you can rent a steamer , if it 's modern wallpaper it should come off without too much trouble . 
if it 's really old , you do n't know what it 's put on with . 
it 's hard to tell , 
the patterns look like they 're nineteen sixties style . 
and i know the house was built around the mid fifties . 
so it may be the original wallpaper . 
could be , 
if it 's vinyl it should be easier to strip too . 
if it 's paper it will probably shred . 
in one bathroom it 's probably paper , 
it 's silver and yellow , and white . 
the wallpaper that i was trying to remove was black , 
this was in a bathroom too . 
and the tiles were sort of a mottled grey and had a little trim strip of maroon and white 
and the wallpaper in that bathroom had a black background 
and then it had vivid almost neon colors of hot pink and turquoise , and lime green and silver , and a little bit of yellow that looked like coral sands and sea horses and things like that . 
that 's kind of an odd color for a bathroom . 
it was awful , 
it was absolutely hideous 
and we had a dinner party before we started renovating it 
and a guest went in there 
and he said it 's a good thing i went to the bathroom before dinner because if i had had something to drink and went in there i would think i was having hallucinations . 
after looking at all these design magazines and stuff , i 'm thinking about maybe painting the bedroom walls too , in a color that will kind of tie in our , comforter , with a color that 's kind of a burgundy and green and yellow and blue and beige floral design . 
and i 'm not really quite sure , 
i do n't know if maybe i 'm biting off more than i can chew . 
i 'd say tackle one project first and see how it goes 
and if you discover you like it then you can always upscale . 
the bedroom would probably be the easier of the two because it would be just plain painting . 
it would n't be any kind of special effects type thing . 
it would be just plain paint . 
it 's not hard to do if you get everything prepared ahead of time . 
because if you use drop cloths to cover everything and you use masking tape to trim out all the parts that you do n't want to slop over onto , you do n't have to be quite as precise about how you do it 
and it can be done a whole lot faster . 
you can wash up easily because they 're water soluble . 
and they dry fast 
so you really do n't have to be disrupted for more than about a weekend . if you have some help . 
and then if you discover the little tricks and tips about how you get through corners and how you do trim and how long to leave the masking tape down , because if you leave it too long and it dries it can flake when you pull it up . 
it peels the paint off when you take it off , 
if you leave it on for weeks , it will do that . 
if you take it up the next day it should be fine . 
you want it to get dry , but not just real hard . 
you do n't want the gum on the back of the masking tape to get dried to hard . 
that 's the problem . 
it will come up a lot easier if you do n't wait too long . 
i always used the nice wide masking tape , 
but i 've heard from people who tried to get by and skimp on narrow masking tape that it was more trouble than it was worth . because it rips as you pull it off 
and then you end up tediously scraping these tiny little shreds of masking tape . 
and the whole point of using it is to save yourself work . 
you can do a little faster painting and much easier clean up if you use the masking tape . 
but use good stuff and buy it at a paint store where they have the right brands , that will go down and come up easily . 
i really appreciate all the helpful tips , 
i think you just made my project a lot easier . 
i wish you very good luck with it 
and i will tell you that i have retired from the painting business . 
the last time i had something done was my kitchen cabinets 
and i decided that was too much to tackle , 
i 'd hire a professional . 
if you were closer i 'd tell you you could come over and supervise . 
if i were closer i might . 
i hope your project turns out great 
and i , really think that it 's exciting that you 're going to try the sponge painting . 
we 'll see how it goes , 
i may just be flat painting over it . 
of course that 's the other advantage of paint . 
if you do n't like it all you do is put on another coat . 
i guess we 'd better go because our time looks like it 's about up . 
i need to go to the dentist , 
it was nice talking to you kathleen . 
thank you . 
i think i get most of my news in headlines from the radio , 
and then i follow-up by reading the newspaper and news magazines about things that attract my attention . 
i do about the same but in a different fashion . 
i 'm from new york originally 
i live in the florida in the winter and then go back up north in the summertime 
and i feel that the only legitimate paper , although it might sound , a little elitist is the new york times . 
i 've always read the new york times when i was younger , 
now that it has a national edition , i read that . 
i guess i do watch mcneil lehrer on p b s because i lean to that coverage , 
i like them 
but they take so long . 
i do n't always have time . 
it 's a whole hour show . 
actually , it 's an hour show each evening , 
and , we turn it on when we start dinner . 
we seem to start dinner around six and finish it up . 
i travel a great deal even overseas , 
and i find that i lean on c n n quite a bit for concise and quick stuff . 
and , i 'm quite satisfied with the way they put it out . 
i do n't believe everything they say , 
but it 's coverage . 
i think c n n does a pretty good job . 
i had not watched them very much except when i was abroad , until the gulf war . 
and they seemed to have the best coverage . 
they had more information sooner than , most of the other networks . 
peter arnet was reporting direct from iraq . 
i think this is scandalous the way everybody 's picking on him . 
i think he reported what he saw 
and if you did n't like it , that was just too bad . 
i know that the coverage he was allowed to present was slanted , 
but i think they said that frequently enough . that you should n't criticize the man for giving us one perspective . 
. 
that 's right , 
i think so . 
and i guess when it comes to magazines , i do n't read , 
i used to when i was younger , 
i subscribed to time and u s news and world report . 
i have seemed to slide away from that and rely more on the local paper 
or , i also subscribe to something called world press , which is a magazine that only talks about other , excerpts from the world press , 
it 's not as slanted as the new york times or as biased perhaps as the local paper . 
but that and the radio . 
i listen to p b s radio a lot 
and i also listen to these twenty-four hour news stations , when i 'm driving . 
we have a c b s twenty-four hour station that i listen to on the way to and from work 
are you from southern or northern california ? 
northern . 
i 'm from the peninsula , 
what is that , 
palo alto . 
the san francisco paper out there is the major paper ? 
it 's horrible . 
and that 's a terrible paper . 
the san francisco paper is just wretched . 
so i subscribe to the san jose mercury news . 
is that pretty good ? 
palo alto is about midway between . 
it 's a whole lot better than that san francisco paper 
what is that , 
the chronicle is n't it ? 
there 's the chronicle , and the examiner , 
they really are probably the worse papers i 've ever read . 
they 're just horrid 
can you get the l a paper up there ? 
that 's a pretty decent paper is n't it 
we can , 
but i do n't like it . 
so we subscribe to the new york times and the wall street journal and mercury news . 
that 's another one i read , 
i forgot that . 
i read the wall street journal , 
not as in depth as i used to , because their articles seem to be getting even longer and longer 
again , i read that two columns on the front . 
i agree with you that the problem seems to be they do n't have enough time to do all the stuff . 
i feel pretty well versed in what i 'm doing because i do spend more time on that than i do on sports , 
i spend a lot of time reading about these things . 
i 'm quite interested . 
i find it very exciting for the coverage we have now , today . 
and i think we do get pretty good coverage . 
i do n't feel that the american people is being shortchanged by the news coverage . 
we almost have too much . 
i do n't know , 
i hear a lot of criticism about listening to , the dan rathers of the world and taking their word for it , or their comment , 
actually , i think they slant things 
i can not stand dan rather . 
i remember him when he was a local newscaster in houston . 
no kidding ! 
and i hated him then . 
i did n't know that . 
and i would not watch that man for money . 
and he and barbara walters just really turn my stomach . 
so i watch peter jennings and tom brokaw . sort of alternately . 
how do you feel about it ? 
i do n't know 
if it said that . i feel i 'm well enough equipped . 
do we get enough news or something like that ? 
do we get the news that we want ? 
and i do . 
i think i do too . 
i think you got to segregate some of it . 
that 's about all i have to say . 
nice to talk to you . 
nice talking to you . 
what movies do you like ? 
i like just about anything . 
i think the last one we saw was teenage mutant ninja turtles part two . 
i like the turtles . 
my little boy 's four 
and he loves them . 
we do n't have any kids 
but we like them anyway . 
that 's okay . 
how old are you all ? 
we 're late twenties . 
and you just do n't have any yet , 
i 've got two . 
my little girl is three months old 
and my little boy just turned four . 
i had his birthday party yesterday . 
but he 's a turtle fanatic . 
he even had turtle cake yesterday . 
but i 've been wanting to see turtle two . 
is it as good as they say it is ? 
it was , 
it was actually better than the first one , i thought . 
what 's the last movie you saw ? 
ghost . 
when the topic came up , i was asking my husband right quick , what 's the last movies we saw . 
he said ghost and turtles . 
i really liked it . 
ghost , 
i love tearjerker movies . 
but that was n't too bad on tearjerker 
but it was good movie , 
not too awful bad . 
though , i can see why it won so many oscars . 
because that was just so good . 
and i like demi moore . 
did you see pretty woman ? 
but i 've been hearing a lot about it . 
we do n't get to the video store very often 
and we do n't have cable . 
we do n't really want cable , 
it 's just glued to the t v all the time anyway . 
so we get two channels down here . 
i 'm from kentucky originally , 
and we used to get five channels without cable . 
forty , 
i do n't think you all have the same channels , 
but here in texas we only get two channels , 
do you watch soap operas ? 
once in a while , when i 'm home . 
you work then ? 
we get the channel with young and the restless on it . 
and then i think general hospital 
and that comes on different channel . 
it does . 
but that 's all we get , 
and that 's no cartoons for my little boy . 
but we 've got a v c r and a lot of tapes . 
and my husband is a movie fanatic . 
i think you would really like pretty woman , 
it made you feel really good . 
it was just a happy movie . 
what about total recall , 
have you seen that . 
i saw that one . 
that 's good . 
i was disappointed in it just because of how violent it was . 
it was violent . 
i try to get away from that . 
my little boy he loves robo cop . 
have you seen it ? 
the part where they 're shooting mercy . 
i do n't like that . 
that 's horrible , 
that is horrible 
and the language on that 's filthy . 
i do n't see why they have to do that , 
everybody knows that the language is there so they could just ignore it and use different words instead , i think . 
i know . 
but i think lately pretty woman 's been my favorite . 
i went and bought the video . 
i 've probably seen it about fifteen or twenty times . 
my husband bought me pretty in pink for my birthday . 
wait a second , 
i will in a minute kyle , . 
that 's okay . 
he bought me pretty in pink . 
just a second . 
you 're glad you ai n't got a four year old . 
that 's okay . 
i have n't seen pretty in pink , 
this is the first time he 's interrupted my phone calls . 
does that have , molly ringwald ? 
molly ringwald . 
it was cute , 
i think sixteen candles was the name of it . 
that was so good . 
of course i was a teenager when i seen that 
and i loved it . 
i have n't seen it either . 
if you like love stories , it 's sweet . 
i do . 
it 's sweet , 
it really is . 
and that 's a tearjerker 
it gets you , 
it makes you feel really sorry for her . 
but it 's hilarious too , especially with that little guy in it . 
he looks like a little boy next door , 
but he 's sixteen . 
it 's a cute movie . 
i ca n't remember his name . 
he kind of looks like doogie howser . 
i do n't know . 
do n't know either . 
he 's got curly blonde hair , 
he just a little freckly , little boy . 
probably know him if i saw him . 
if i could remember the name , i know you 'd know his name , because he 's played in a few movies . 
i was just thinking another good one i saw not too long ago was sleeping with the enemy . 
i 've heard about that 
but i ca n't remember it . 
that 's julia roberts ' new movie . 
julia roberts is good . 
you know pretty woman was kind of a light comedy and a romance , 
and this one was a lot more dramatic . 
was n't it a murder mystery ? 
sort of . 
it was a mystery . 
she disappeared from her husband who was abusing her . 
that 's the one i wanted to see where she was at a carnival on a ferris wheel or something . 
did that come on t v 
it came out in the theater . 
and i think around here , it 's all ready quit playing . 
but i do n't know if it 's still playing any where else . 
i think , 
but it was one of those that kept you on the edge of your seat . 
real good . 
i want to see that . 
i seen the previews for it on t v down here , 
but it 's just been down here a couple weeks , i think . 
because we saw it , probably , four or five months ago . 
i know it has n't been that long since i 've seen the previews for it , 
but 
i wanted to see it . 
her husband was a , dark haired guy with a beard and moustache , 
he shaved the beard off . 
he was a real psycho in the movie . 
it was scary . 
i 'd like to see that . 
i want to see war of the roses too , 
have you seen that ? 
i did n't like it . 
you did n't ? 
i did n't like the way it ended . 
i know , 
the only reason i know why it ended is on arsenio hall one night , christopher reeves told , that , 
i ca n't believe they killed them . 
or who was it 
christopher reeve or mike douglas . 
might have been michael douglas . that starred in it . 
it was michael douglas . 
christopher reeve was n't in it at all ? 
arsenio hall is the one that jumped up and said that i ca n't believe they killed them 
and christopher reeve , or , mike douglas went after his throat , you dummy . 
so i know that they die , 
but i have n't told my husband . 
we 've both been wanting to see it . 
it was weird . 
it was a different movie from anything i 've ever seen . 
we was teasing , about splitting our house down the middle . 
they did that did n't they 
and they marked off routes that they could go or something . 
that would be kind of hard for us , 
we 've only got one bathroom , 
we 've got two bathrooms 
my house kind of looks like two trailers put together . 
and one bathroom is at the end of one side 
and one 's in the middle of the other , 
so we could do it . 
that would n't be too bad . 
and he could climb out the window . 
every room leads to three rooms , 
get around . 
you can get around . 
you just ca n't go out the front door honey , 
did you see fatal attraction ? 
that 's coming back , on too . 
i know it 's going to be on c b s tuesday night 
and that 's kind of in a way how it kind of bothered you , the way it ended and stuff . 
that 's kind of how war of the roses was . 
parts of war of the roses was funny 
but then other times it was like it was just deadly serious , 
and it just left you with this kind of uneasy feeling . 
eerie feeling , 
or , i want to see it though . 
the never ending story , came out on disney this month , i think . 
i 've heard about that 
i wanted to see that . 
but i do n't know what it 's about . 
the never ending story ? 
it 's a child 's movie , 
but it 's good , 
i enjoyed it . 
i love disney movies . 
i do too 
and 
they 're some of the best that are made . 
i think he 's up in a attic , or some part of school . 
he got locked in the school 
and he got scared , 
but he starts dreaming 
it 's been so long since i 've seen it . 
alls i can really remember is him flying this great big dog , this great big huge sheep dog sort of looking thing , 
it flies through the air . 
and he 's trying to save the land from some , ooze . 
but it 's really good , 
it had fred savage in it . 
did you see that movie with fred savage in it , though , 
i do n't think so . 
it was the princess bride . 
i did n't see that . 
you did n't see that , 
that was cute , 
that was a good one . 
i like slapstick comedy . 
so do i 
and a lot of times we 'll go to rent a movie or something 
and you 're not sure whether it will be any good or not 
a friend of mine told me she got naked gun last night 
and she said that was hilarious . 
we saw that , 
and they 're coming out with a sequel to it . 
two and a half . 
it was funny . 
i want to see that . 
she said she rented it last night and said it was real good 
and working girl is really good . 
i seen that , 
that was good . 
was that with that blonde , 
she pretended to be the boss or something . 
i rented that one night by myself . 
i was home alone . 
did you see home alone ? . 
i did , 
that just reminded me of that . 
did you like it ? 
why do n't you tell me about yours . 
the area 's dominantly three bedroom , two bath . 
so , i 'm just a little bit different than typical , 
and of course , the plano area is basically with alleyways , 
so everything around here is set up that way . which i think is a little bit different than most areas , in the houses , the way they 're constructed . 
and it 's a brick house , with some wood . 
it 's real nice , 
i like it . 
how about you ? 
i certainly hope so . 
we have a classic ranch , up in denton . 
ranch style home , 
i would hate to think that anybody thought the lot we live on as a ranch . 
it 's in a subdivision and one story . 
it started out life as a three bedroom house , and now has no two car garage and has the two extra rooms enclosed . 
i suppose we still only have three effective bedrooms 
but we gained a playroom for the kids and an office out of enclosing the garage . 
are most of the houses in your area three bedroom , two bath ? 
almost a hundred percent . 
i ca n't think of any four bedroom houses in the subdivision . 
ours is probably the closest to it . 
you know how realtors are , 
they 'll say , this could be five bedrooms . 
if you had two people that do n't have any clothes it could be a five bedroom house , 
do n't need a closet . 
when i go down the street i can just pick out houses that are identical to mine 
but they 're spaced out maybe three , on a two block period . 
because it 's all different builders up here . 
so it 's kind of hard at that point to classify some of the builders . 
but the one thing , my house is a little bit different 
and i can pick it out again because it 's not typical , 
what do you call a double ceiling , double high in one half of the house . 
so the den and the living room are all double cathedral ceilings . 
cathedral ceilings . 
and the kitchen is norm 
and the bedrooms are norm . 
so it just goes down the dining room , the family room , and the living room that way . 
and i love the space . 
luckily i came from a house in colorado which had the cathedral ceiling 
and i just lucked out and walked into this one 
and of course i felt the same airy feeling , which i liked it real well , 
but , again , it 's not typical in this area . 
you can just spot them because the roof is so much higher . 
i had n't thought about it in that sense , of the high roofs . 
we have cathedral ceilings in two rooms . in the family room and in the master bedroom 
and those are pleasant . 
he can walk 
and he 's six foot . 
and he says , come on up mom . 
i 'm not going up there . 
i 'm not going up there , 
but he says there 's plenty of room up there for a room . 
so that means if i knock out the wall in my family room , i could make another room overlooking my family room from upstairs with no problem . 
but i 'm not that ambitious . 
maybe someday when i feel really ambitious and get angry i 'll start poking holes up there , 
but i 've noticed the houses around here it 's one story and they 're all basically two bath with three bedrooms . 
i guess probably a hundred percent of them all are mostly brick with some wood . 
but it 's basically all brick . 
the next subdivision over from me is total brick 
and the one on the other side of me is about the same as mine . 
but the one on they 're total brick 
and they 're basically almost all three , two . 
they 're all three , two . 
but of course they have a little river going down their area too , which is kind of nice . 
if it 's the kind of river i 'm thinking of , better than us . 
are you talking about a real river , creek ? 
it 's a creek , 
they 've put little fountains in and such . 
that 's nice . 
i came from mississippi recently 
and the rivers that we had there were the ones that came with the rains 
and they did n't pay any attention to banks and that kind of stuff . 
so you 're just as likely to wake up and discover you 're in two inches of water . 
do you have a lot of yard around your house now , in denton ? 
it 's a third of an acre . 
i do n't think that 's a lot , 
in fact , i have been real disappointed in the six years that i 've lived out here about lot sizes . 
i 'm more accustomed to a one acre lot being a standard and the two acre being what most people have . 
when you get down closer in to the newer tract homes you find almost there 's no lot line at all . 
they 're built practically on top of each other . 
that 's true . 
i know , 
and while there are some advantages to that , there 's less time spent outside making it look nice and taking care of things . 
i just feel hemmed in by that . 
it 's not as comfortable a living for me . 
there 's enough to put twelve feet between each house on each side . 
i 've got more on one side than i 've got on the other , 
but i 'm like you , 
i came down from colorado 
here , i look out my back yard 
and i can see the gate . 
the fence is right there , 
just do n't run too fast , 
or you 'll hit it 
and i 'm not used to that either . 
i could see people putting swimming pools in the back yard all around me , 
but to me , you put the swimming pool in your back yard 
and you 've lost your back yard . 
you 've got a little place on one side or the other , 
but to me they 're not that big enough for a pool , 
but they 're going up , 
but it 's great for mowing . 
from that aspect , you 're right . 
and it does n't take nearly as long to get out there and weed it by hand and that kind of stuff . 
but 
i 'm used to walking out the back yard 
and you can play catch across the back yard 
and you 've got plenty of room to even play a small game of baseball , 
but , do n't do it around here . 
that 's sort of what drove me to denton , when i first came out here in eighty-five . 
i started looking 
and it seemed like the further i got away from dallas , center the more lot came with the house and the lower the price , at the same time . 
and it just seemed like there was a ten thousand dollar drop for each city . 
i had n't thought about it that way . 
so moving up thirty-five , i stopped when i got to denton . 
with our jobs mainly hitting downtown dallas we could n't go too much further , 
but , we went that way . 
it was the schools and the cost of houses , 
so we kept going out until we figured we hit a point where we need the traffic , time to get into work , 
and that 's where we stopped . 
it was the same problem . 
you all both work downtown ? 
i got layed off by t i . 
this is a wonderful thing that you 're doing here still helping them out . 
but you were working downtown . 
i was working at the dallas site . 
my ex-husband was working downtown . 
but t i as far as i concerned , they 've been great as far as layoffs is concerned , 
so i have no problems . 
but as far as the housing , personally , i would like to move out of a four bedroom house and go with something smaller . 
but prices in plano there is n't a section in plano you can really move to without getting caught 
do you have a bunch of factories and stuff out there ? 
we 've got quite a few , actually . 
what we 're more concerned with is the inner pollution in the city . 
we 've actually had some warnings in raleigh on air pollution . 
you mean for smog and stuff ? 
and we have a belt line around raleigh where we 're trying to divert traffic . 
and it 's just surrounding the city , 
and you can actually see it . 
there 's a couple of tall buildings in raleigh , 
they 're blurred , 
they 're even dark , 
and what it is is the pollution . 
what do you think of the greenhouse effect that 's going on ? 
i guess that 's the fluorocarbons 
that 's causing the hole in the ozone . 
that 's very serious . 
we 're even feeling the effects of the weather from the shift in the jet stream . 
it is scary though , is n't it ? 
the last two years , our winters have been absolutely nothing . 
maybe , one snow . 
north carolina . 
that 's up there by kentucky , is n't it ? 
kentucky ? 
north carolina is all the way on the east coast . 
it 's further west than georgia , 
it 's right below virginia . 
kentucky 's next to virginia , i 'm pretty sure . 
i 'm from kentucky , 
i should know 
but , i do n't , 
i 'm sorry . 
but kentucky , we use to have just real cold , cold winters 
and we 'd have three and four feet of snow . 
course here in texas they do n't have snow , 
they do n't know what snow is . 
they freak out when there 's snow on the ground . 
originally i 'm from texas 
so amarillo . 
amarillo ? 
that 's close to here . 
real close . 
how long have you been in raleigh ? 
i 've been out of texas about ten years . 
how old are you ? 
twenty seven . 
i almost forgot my age . 
we 're the same age . 
i forget my age all the time , 
so that 's okay . 
i think it 's just something that goes with the territory . 
but to me , texas and kentucky , we had to have ice on the ground for them to close school . 
in texas if it gets cold and it looks like it 's going to rain , i swear they close everything down . 
i just laugh . 
i do , 
and traffic slows down to nothing . 
actually , they 've been doing the same thing here . 
it 's kind of funny , 
i guess northerners are different , 
but even north carolinians , they do n't know how to handle cold weather . 
i 'm from the north , 
i do n't know , 
you just get used to the weather , 
and of course the people down in south , they 're not used to cold weather and stuff , 
i do n't know , 
i just laugh 
every time they have snow , on the ground everything 's closed up . 
and you can have snow on the ground . 
that 's true . 
do you all have much pollution there ? 
not really , 
not to see it . 
of course , t i is here , oscar mayer 
and there is a few factories , 
but i do n't see much pollution going on . 
what irks me is these cars that are driving down the road , 
and you have that black smoke coming from their tail pipe . 
they have a test , or something like that . 
and that 's supposed to cut down on it . 
supposedly that 's supposed to catch it . 
but i 'll tell you what , 
and even these buses it . 
these buses in raleigh , 
school buses and the commercial buses , 
school buses are notorious . 
they 're burning that diesel fuel is what it is . 
and it gets bad . 
you know what they 've started doing is instead of the tail pipes being at the bottom of those buses they 've started putting them up at the top , 
and that way it gets above other cars on the road 
that 's a good idea . 
and it really does make a difference , 
although it settles , 
even if it 's at the top and it 's a lot of black smoke coming out , it still settles , 
and , if you 're going to be jogging on the side of the road , that 's even more miserable . 
i 'd have to go out to the country to jog . 
the pregnant women are n't supposed to walk along a highway because of that smoke fumes . 
i did n't know that . 
when i was pregnant with my first little boy , i had read it , 
because i was walking back and forth , 
not back and forth , 
i was walking home from the college i was going to in kentucky . 
and i was having to walk along the highway . 
it was just one day a week . 
i have no sense of smell , 
so i could n't smell this , 
but it would make me sick , 
and i 'd be real tired anyway just from walking along the highway . 
that 's bad . 
all the exhaust . 
that was four years ago , too , 
it 's probably a lot worse now . 
i 'm sure . 
you can really feel it in your breathing , even normal people , 
and if you 're older you can really deplete your oxygen , 
and it 'll pass out , 
and it 's killed several people . 
do you smoke ? 
so , i 'm a very , very light smoker . 
it was kind of funny . 
they were doing some ozone testing the e p a 
and they were just screening some candidates , 
and i do n't think i 'd ever do that , 
but they asked me if i was a smoker , 
and i did n't fit into the smoker 's category , 
and i did n't fit into the nonsmoker 's category . 
i was just one of those 
because you do smoke one a day . 
in between people . 
so that kind of threw them off . 
but they 're doing a lot of research here the e p a . 
for the air pollution . 
for ozone , and all that . 
they 're real big into it . 
they 've got research triangle park here , 
and they 're just doing a lot of stuff . 
i do n't hear much about it down here . 
course , texas , we do n't have a bunch of pollution . 
but , too , we 've got that air coming in off the coast . 
and it 'd blow it up north . 
so , maybe that 's part of the reason it 's not so bad down here . 
but 
it would seem like it would be the same way on the california coastline , would n't it ? 
i think i would hate to live in california , 
the smog there . 
i ca n't believe they have warnings here , which it 's mainly just when it gets real , real hot . 
but they usually have that everywhere because of the humidity especially . 
that 's kind of good to know , 
because i thought i lived in a halfway decent area . 
i think they do that for most everybody . 
especially , it 's usually for the young children and older old people . 
you ought to come to north carolina . 
it 's a big change . 
it is ? 
there was no trees where i was from , in amarillo , 
and here they 've got the mountains , the beach , the trees , 
they 've got streams , rivers , ponds , 
it 's really pretty here . 
this is pretty wooded area down here 
is it ? 
in a lot of parts , 
i know texas is supposed to be flat , 
sherman and denison , 
do you know my grandparents live in durant ? 
they do ? 
they live close then . 
real close . 
i go there , 
in durant , oklahoma ? 
you go where ? 
you go to visit them ? 
we used to go fishing in lake texoma . 
down by lake texoma there 's a bunch of wooded area . 
but kentucky 's beautiful . 
they 've got trees , 
and trees are supposed to purify . 
you know what the best indoor purifying plant is for smoke and stuff ? 
it 's a philodendron . 
it 's supposed to filter the air for you , in your home . 
i 'm going to have to get some . 
i had one . 
my husband bought it for me when my daughter was born four months ago . 
do you smoke ? 
i do . 
do you ? 
i do . 
did you smoke when you were pregnant ? 
i did . 
i could n't make myself quit . 
i did cut down a lot . 
i can understand that , actually . 
i 've got one vice 
and smoking is it . 
i do n't drink , 
and i try not to cuss , 
and i do very little , 
and smoking , i got in the habit of it when i was about thirteen . 
i miss their morals , their values and everything . 
we 're down here at the bible belt , are n't we ? 
i was n't saved until i got down here , 
there 's so many christians , 
and it 's so different from kentucky 
how 'd you get involved in this research ? 
i worked at t i for a while , 
but then my brother-in-law works there , 
and he got me into it . 
i see . 
how 'd you get into it ? 
i was taking a voice i o class and actually doing some research , 
and so they told me about this project . 
it 's fun , 
i like talking to new people . 
and a couple of times i 've been interrupted by my little girl , 
i 've had to hang up and stuff . 
but i enjoy it . 
i talked to people from carolina up in boston , and new york , 
boston is new york , is n't it ? 
boston 's above . 
boston , massachusetts . 
but i 've talked to people in new york , 
but i 've talked to a lot of people in texas , 
i guess , it 's because t i -s down here . 
i 've talked to a lot of people in texas . 
from up north , like you said , 
i think one was from boston . 
with boston , i love their accent . 
i do , 
i love the boston accent . 
i met a girl from boston one time . 
my husband was in the service , 
so we went from kentucky to louisiana down here to texas , 
and his family 's down here . 
we 're out of the service now . 
i bet you 're glad . 
he got out of his unit , right after panama . 
he went to panama when noriega was doing all that . 
where are you from tina ? 
i 'm from maryland 
and i have one son who 's almost sixteen months old . 
you are . 
i have two children , 
i have a seven year old and a three year old . 
so i try to spend as much time as possible with them . 
that 's good . 
what kind of things do you do ? 
we do a lot of things with them , 
or my oldest is in school 
and so she has a lot of school programs and things like that . 
was it a big change in your life , to have a child . 
it 's really nice , 
my husband is working most of the time . 
he 's working long hours , 
but i 'm staying home . 
i 'm just working a couple days a month , 
what do you do during those days ? 
we spend a lot of time at the playground 
and we go to the zoo , 
you said you worked a couple days a month , though , 
what do you do ? 
i 'm a nurse . 
are you ? 
it 's real easy to work out my schedule to still stay in with that , and to have enough time to spend with matthew . 
he 's , just now really starting to get interested in a lot of things , 
i understand that , 
they really grow up quick . especially at that early age . 
she worked part-time when my oldest was little 
and now she 's staying home all the time , 
but that worked out really well because it 's a big transition to have children . 
to go from nothing , 
if you want to do something every night that 's fine , 
but when you have children it does n't work that way anymore , 
that 's right , 
and i think a lot of people are realizing that 
but still there are so many people that have their careers first 
and i think it 's really hurting the kids , 
i agree with you , 
i think that my wife leaned that way 
and i 'm really glad she did 
and i 'm glad she 's staying home , 
but i know there are some days when she wishes she was back at work . 
i know , . 
that 's why i like to work a couple days , 
i think it gives me a break . 
that 's why i 'm glad my wife did too , 
'cause she worked either two to three days a week 
and that got her out of the house 
most of the time at home , 
we had started out like that 
and i think that was really ideal . 
i do to , 
i agree , 
but then when you start having two of them , it 's a little bit tougher , because you 've got to make a little more money , to make that payoff and stuff . 
it 's difficult , 
are you from the maryland area ? 
i 've lived here forever , 
i live in germantown , 
where are you from ? 
i 'm in dallas , texas . 
in dallas , 
i 've lived here eight years or so , 
my wife 's from fort worth . 
i work for texas instruments . 
that explains it does n't it . 
i do n't know , 
we do a lot of things on the weekends together , the family , 
but as far as during the week , it 's usually just my son and i , 
what 's your husband do ? 
he works for coca cola . 
he manages a plant out here , 
and it takes a lot of time . 
i 'm sure it does . 
we take walks , and go to the library , and try to fill our day with things like that , 
my wife did some teaching at a private tutoring place . a sylvan learning center this year 
and so that got me to be able to spend more time with the kids at night and stuff 'cause normally if they need something they just go to mom . no matter what it is , 
i 'm perfectly capable of doing it for them , 
but , it 's so much easier to go to mom , 
i guess they get used to it . 
but we 'd go to the library and do things like that , 
that 's good , 
that 's good . 
and he works about an hour and a half away from our home , 
so it takes him a little bit of time . 
and i 'm not able to work during the week because of that . 
i was working in the evening , 
and he was coming home 
and i could go to work , 
but their relationship when i was able to work in the evenings really grew . 
just the time that they were spending together , 
i think it really helped to have that time together . 
it really does 
because i think you grow closer . 
had he been around children , 
he has seven other brothers and sisters , 
his parents have thirteen grandchildren . 
so there 's a lot of kids in the family 
and he really enjoys it . 
but right now it 's kind of a difficult time , 
and the cost of living here is just so tremendously outrageous . 
it 's difficult to do it any other way . 
i understand . 
then you 're not getting to spend as much time at home , 
your husband is not getting to spend as much time at home as he 'd want to . 
that 's right . 
that 's a tough situation , 
you got to do what you got to do to get along , too , 
at least , i just consider myself blessed that i can stay home . 
like i said my wife normally feels that way , 
there are days when i come home 
and she says take these kids , 
i 'm getting out . 
i know . 
so she 's had about enough during those days , 
i know . 
like what you said with the cost of living and everything , i think a lot of people ca n't afford to get by on just one salary and wo n't . 
and so i think that 's tended to lead to a decline in families and family values especially . 
it has . 
and i really think that that 's one of the problems the nation 's facing that we need to do something about , 
but i do n't know what . 
i believe that too , 
they need to really focus on the children in this country . 
would you have said that a couple of years ago ? 
i did n't even really think about it that much , 
i was vaguely aware of it , 
but it was n't really that important to me , 
it 's amazing how your whole focus on life changes after you 've had a child . 
it really does , 
seeing how you really are forming the mind . 
in the next year or so , you 'll see so many instances where he 'll mimic something that you 've done , 
and everything i 'm doing , he 's learning from . 
that 's right . 
and , you think , if i was n't here he 'd be learning that from a baby-sitter or from a day care . 
that 's how they 're developing their patterns . 
and i think a lot of people either , do n't care , or do n't realize it . 
or they just put it in the back of their mind and let it slide . 
eventually . 
it 's true . 
i know , 
plus i think it becomes part of you too , 
you get to stay home , 
it 's not just for him , 
but it 's also for you , because you 're both kind of bonding together there too , i think , 
that 's true . 
it 's been nice talking to you . 
it 's nice talking to you , too . 
good luck . 
i have probably had more time than you have to think about this subject , 
so i 'll tell you , 
is it a serious problem ? 
i do believe it 's a serious problem . 
however , there are solutions to it . 
and foremost where we compare that we are now doing fifty percent of our people are voting . 
we 're probably making a comparison against some european and , newer republics that have very high percentages . 
so one of the reasons that it is lower in the united states is that mostly we hold it on tuesdays . 
god knows why we hold it on tuesdays . 
and then we further complicate it by saying we will keep the polls open until eight o'clock . 
what ... 
if a third of the people are shift workers , they wo n't be able to get to the polls in any case . if they have to work late into the evening and not get up . 
my solution to that is that we hold it on sundays . as do probably sixty to seventy percent of the european countries now . 
they hold it on the weekends ? 
they hold it on either a saturday or a sunday , or at least a day when , a great number of people are not working . 
sunday . 
in america that is not true because a great number of people work on sundays . 
but that is one of my solutions . 
i know here in dallas that they have just instituted in the last couple of years a real long period of time that you can absentee vote before the elections . 
and i do not think they have seen a really high improvement . 
have you absentee voted in texas ? 
i always vote . 
i have absentee voted in new hampshire , 
and it is a fairly complicated process where you have to go pick up the ballot . 
i do not say that it is that complicated , 
but part of the process also is that you must preregister at some particular point . 
new hampshire is fairly easy 
but other states you have to register every couple of years . ... to just vote . 
to absentee vote specifically ? 
so registrations are perhaps a problem also . 
and we 're the mobile society , 
one out of every seven people moves every year . 
if it is difficult to register to vote , that would remove your eligibility to vote . 
but i do not think it is difficult enough to prevent people who are motivated in the first place , who are not just motivated who really believe that their voice is heard . 
maybe that is another factor , the motivational factor . 
i think that is the biggest one . 
that 's the biggest problem . 
w-we have noticed this in particular . 
i , just read two books , 
one of them is whose stars and stripes now ? 
the trivial pursuit of the presidency in nineteen eighty-eight . 
it 's a fairly decent book . 
it 's preceded by several other books by these guys . 
wake me up when it 's over was about the eighty-four elections . 
and i forget what the other books were , 
blue smoke and mirrors was the one in eighty-two . 
these guys , have taken the place of theodore white on reporting elections . 
in any case , they say that there 's a definite trend toward candidates using negative voting . 
it is the only way that you can use television effectively . 
i do n't understand that . 
is that just because they have such a low opinion of the public ? 
and the public 's gullibility ? 
the public would rather hear something negative about the other guy than a positive factor . 
if you go on the attack , and put some sensational thing before the public and it is not refuted , people will believe it . 
if you do n't refute it , as he did n't , there must be some truth to the matter . 
he did refute it . 
he refuted it , 
he did n't refute it til the last two weeks of the campaign . 
he did n't believe anybody would believe that . 
and indeed his trend started upward . 
i did n't believe anybody would believe that either . 
they do . 
do n't give too much credit to the american public for their motivational ability . 
then how can a democracy work then ? 
i do n't know . 
how can it work ? 
is it working ? 
that 's the question . 
i guess the question also that we discovered , is that they do n't throw rascals out . 
everybody seems disappointed , 
but they do n't throw the rascal out , their own rascal . 
my solution to part of this is to make it an economic incentive for people to vote . 
what ? 
you would take a certain amount off their income tax or property tax or whatever . 
the whole thing just stinks . 
how about the reverse of that ? 
when i have heard about england 's elections , they are allowed to run for a total of six or eight weeks . even for the higher offices in the land . 
what if we just severely limited the campaigns so money was n't so much of an issue ? 
i feel like , , if we did that people would have a lot higher confidence that their vote was counting rather than their contributions would count . 
but the idea is to get the individual to the polls , 
a-a-and we have to make it as easy as possible for him to get to the polls . 
, i do n't care how easy it is for them , 
i do not think they are going to because they do no think that anybody listens to their vote . 
and these days we are promised hardly anything of substance . 
you mean the special interest groups ? 
they do not promise anything specific these days . 
but whatever you are promised , they just reverse themselves depending on who pays them what once they get into office . 
read my lips . 
and no new taxes 
and yet bush did that . 
but he 's excused from that . 
i 've read polls now where they 've excused him because there was a definite necessity to balance the budget . 
then why did he say that during his campaign ? 
he promised the best he could . 
and he is the president 
and he should address those problems 
what was so funny about it is that it happened so rapidly . 
he knew it . 
he actually knew it . 
and being associated with government , he should be held up to the light for that . 
and maybe he will . 
i think you still have a view that the american voter is different from other voters . 
and he is motivated because we happen to be the cradle of liberty and all that . 
i think voters are motivated ... 
what about voters in the other countries that you were talking about ? 
like in the european countries where they have higher turnouts ? and the newer democracies 
because it 's going to be totally different , 
i do n't know if they have higher turnouts overall . 
you do not think so ? 
i do n't think england has , 
i think england has about a seventy percent , sixty-five percent turn out . 
i think that we just discovered in the indian elections is one of the greatest and massive things in the world . 
just , it got more violent every year . 
they went down almost fifty percent in this election before they blew up ghandi . 
but , simply because people were so concerned about their inability that their vote does not count any way . 
and the corruption of politics in that s-s-situation there . 
but , everything is relative to when we had higher turnouts because at that time we talk about the turnout relative to the eligible voter ? 
but before this voting rights act , what we had was a great deal of our population mainly the blacks in the south and the hispanics were precluded by , voting laws from their eligibility to register . 
now everybody is available . 
when we said we had a seventy percent turnout in nineteen fifty , we really only had a fifty percent turnout 
i see , 
were disqualified . 
but is n't that kind of a blanket racist kind of thing to say the blacks and hispanics and other minorities just do n't vote ? 
or is that just the truth ? 
i think there 's a higher percentage in certain black areas of voters . 
i do n't know about hispanics . 
i think in this sort of conversation we can only do our own reaction . 
but that just made me think of something that happened down here in dallas last year . 
they have this huge fight going over redistricting here . 
and at one point they took another vote on it , 
and the minorities could not get enough of a vote out to pass their plan . 
and this is something that had been going on for months . 
it was on the news every night . 
and they have had lawsuits over it . 
it was a major issue , 
and there still was n't enough minority vote to pass the plan that they were backing . 
i think that you have really hit on something there . 
what do you mean ? 
and we are saying we have lower voter turnout . 
karen , i wonder if we are recording . 
why , 
did you not press one ? 
i did press one , 
but usually by this time they tell me that the time is up . 
i should not say i do not know . 
i do not feel very stronger that the jury system should be changed . 
it seems to have worked time immemorial . 
and when difficult decisions are made they generally prove out to be right by things that occur later on . 
i know in some cases now in some states , depending on the criminal code a unanimous verdict is not required . 
and indeed some juries are no longer twelve people , 
they are down to as small as six people in minor felonies and misdemeanor trials . 
i think that the judges should be left to do most of the sentencing , simply because there is always a jury that might be swayed by the moment either to be too lenient or too vengeful , i guess . 
on the other hand justices are more apt to understand the prison crowding problems and things like that , and have that sway their decisions one way or the other . 
but is that a reflection then of what is really happening in the real world ? 
if they keep giving everybody hundred year sentences , 
i think that is what is happening . 
i think the judges are trying to save the people from having , the cost of new prisons . 
that might be it . 
they are saying , the people can not afford it . 
i do n't know how it is in virginia , 
but in florida now someone was just sentenced to eighteen years , without any specific recommendation for waving the normal procedures . 
and the eighteen years will translate into something like four point seven , if the prisoner is a model prisoner , 
and indeed the present overcrowding conditions prevail . 
plus , i guess , there was some credit for time this guy had already spent in jail waiting for trial . 
so 
you might be right about that . 
i do not know , 
it just seems to me that only about ten percent of the cases come for trial anyway . 
in the very end 
or less than half the cases that go to trial end up with the jury actually making the verdict . 
with a conviction ? 
that most of it is plea bargained half way through 
or most of the cases are plea bargained anyway . 
but how do you feel about the jury system itself ? 
do you think that should be changed ? 
or do you know in virginia if they have smaller juries 
i know one of my friends was brought up for jury duty . 
and he only heard very piddly type cases . 
most of it was robberies or things like that , 
it was not any serious crimes . 
so apparently even for the smallest crimes , they give the person any felony . 
they give the person the option for a jury . 
i guess we always focus on criminal trials with the jury . 
but i know you have a right to ask for a jury in any sort of a case where damages are the result of some sort of an action that you are bringing against someone else . you can ask for that to be heard before a jury . 
takes a heck of a long time to get there in some states . 
i do not know , 
i should imagine virginia , from what i read is like every other state . 
it is faced with enormous costs to maintain the jury system and the prison system and the entire trial system . 
because everywhere i read that there is a shortage of judges . 
not that they wo n't appoint them 
but there is no budget for them , i guess . 
and the courthouse that goes with them and the bailiffs and the court clerks . 
whatever . 
i do not think i would change it . 
the more i verbalize it , i do not think i would want to change the system . 
i do not know what we would replace it with . 
i do not think i would either . 
i know , 
i can not think of the word i am looking for . 
anyway , the deterrent . for people to not commit the crime is sort of gone away . 
i do not know , 
they just do not care any more . 
the benefit of crime outweighs what the deterrent is . 
and yet there are so many people in prison . 
my impression of it is that it has doubled in the last ten years and tripled in the last twenty . 
i mean it , 
i guess our population has grown some too . 
but there definitely is to me one of the worst things that could ever happen from what i read and see and understand . 
i do no think i could handle prison . 
it would be very difficult , 
i would be interested in finding out what the percentage of drug related type things are , 
there must be a very great degree of that . 
but there again i do not know if the jury system itself comes in to play there . 
i would think that , 
one of the things that sort of bothers me is the ability , 
of course it is a constitutional right that the press must have here , is the interviewing of jurors after the trial . 
it seems to me that when a jury makes a decision , they should not be asked before television cameras and newspaper reporters how they reached that decision . 
i imagine there is a certain right of the press to have the ability to ask that . 
but i would think if i did anything , i would protect the juror from any sort of an inquisition after . 
i know , 
on the other hand though , after the barry trial , up here the big local trial , as well as national . 
i do a lot of business up in washington . 
i was there during the trial actually , 
and the opposite was true of me . 
after the case was over , i was somebody get ahold of these people and find out why in the world did they vote the way they did . 
it was a picture is not good enough . 
we want to see , 
i do not know what they wanted honestly . 
i do not know . 
just because you feel like he was being kicked on , which he certainly was . 
no doubt in my mind the federal government picked him out and selected him to be prosecuted . 
i felt that way . 
but it does not matter . 
the guy was obviously guilty . 
i always balanced in the situation . 
i remember the jurors , 
one count . 
but i do not know , 
maybe when you are there in the courtroom yourself and you are sitting there and you have got to make a judgment on somebody . 
and the prosecutors do a lousy job , 
or maybe the evidence was not as sensational as the media presented it . 
that might be it . 
i think i am getting a call coming in . 
nice talking with you . 
it has been nice talking to you . 
thank you . 
my last auto repair was my , alternator went out . 
i have a nineteen eighty-six toyota , 
it 's a little tercel . 
and i have a friend who 's real good with repairing cars 
so i got him to take the alternator off and take it and get a replacement part . 
so we went to a place called quality auto parts 
and their parts are supposed to be guaranteed and everything 
and they 're , very reasonable . 
so i bought the alternator , 
we put it on the car 
and it did n't work , 
and it blew out all the fuses . 
how much was the alternator ? 
something like sixty-nine dollars , something on that order . 
did he hook up the wiring wrong ? 
he hooked it up right . 
it was just that the part just did n't fit the car , 
so . i took it back 
and the guy in the parts shop took the alternator 
and he put it on the little thing he has in there to test them 
and he said there was nothing wrong with the alternator 
so we went back and tried it again , put it on again 
and it still did n't work , 
and we took the car up to a little place called pep boys , 
i do n't know if you have them in your area 
but they 're pretty reasonable car repair place also . 
so towed it up there because it would n't start or anything 
and this thing just kept blowing out the fuses 
and took them about an hour to figure out what was blowing the fuse , 
and it was the alternator that was blowing the fuse . 
anyway , ended up taking it to the toyota dealer 
and the only problem was that it had to be a genuine toyota alternator because most of the other ones that they say will fit it , they sit in there and everything 
but there 's just some little difference that causes it not to work , 
they probably built that in so they could make money . 
i guess so 
and that was my last experience . 
there 's a little sensing device right in front of the fan , 
it 's an air conditioner sensing device . 
i do n't know why , 
there 's a metal piece that fits through the belts , 
and somehow that broke off 
and i still ca n't figure out how it broke , 
i have a subaru , 
and i think you can only get it through subaru dealer , etcetera , 
this little sensing device costed sixty bucks . 
and i have n't had too many problems with my car , 
i got a eighty-eight subaru , g l x t 
and then just basic maintenance and oil changes 
and i do not do my oil changes 
and i will not do my oil changes . 
borrowed somebody else 's jack 
and i did this 
and i went and bought everything , 
so after buying the filter and all the oil , you 're looking at ten bucks at least , or somewhere in there 
and then to go to the trouble , 
that i figured it 's easier spending eighteen bucks at jiffy lube . 
as far as any maintenance on my car , i shy away from the oil changes , 
that 's for sure . 
my car it 's an eighty-six 
and i really had n't had any trouble with it until that 
and the car now has a hundred and thirty something thousand miles on it 
and this was just recent , 
so i really ca n't complain about this one . 
how did you put that many miles on it , in , four or five years ? 
it was a seventy mile trip everyday , 
two ways was seventy miles . 
a hundred and forty mile trip ? 
it was just seventy miles . 
thirty-five miles each way . 
and i did that for about three years 
and it really added up . 
i 've only taken maybe two trips that were about four hours long down to shreveport . 
and the rest of it it 's just basically driving a long ways to work . 
and now i drive twenty-three miles each way , 
so , i 'm getting little relief , 
but still i drive a long ways . 
do you work for t i ? 
i do . 
do you ? 
i was going to ask you as far as how we 're getting compensated for what we 're doing right now , 
i do n't work for t i 
i do n't know what you want to call them , 
fake point things , 
points . 
and i just wondering how i go about getting the cash . 
there 's a number that you call , 
it 's the same number that you call to make a call . 
you call that number 
and , somehow or another they 'll give you an option to leave a message 
and you can leave a message . 
i know someone that did that , 
you leave a message 
and they 'll call you back . 
that 's good to know . 
this is the first time i 've been called in a long time 
and i have n't been doing it 
and i 've done it maybe twelve times . 
i do n't know if i 've done it quite that much , 
but mine is mixed up too , 
i have to call and get it fixed . 
let 's see 
before i had this car i bought an audi five thousand 
but i bought it used . 
i just bought it from a friend who just charged me what the dealer was going to give him for it for a trade-in , 
and it had a whole lot of miles on it . 
i figured maybe i 'd get one or two years out of it , 
an i did get a couple of good years out of it 
and the engine messed up on me 
and then i gave it to a guy to repair who works for the audi dealer 
and he took the engine apart 
and he just said he could n't fix it 
so the engine never got put back together again . 
i was driving a sixty-six plymouth fury . 
i do n't know , 
the body was in good condition 
and it ran fine . 
it was starting to burn some oil . 
about couple of months after i was out of college i finally splurged and bought my car 
i read a book one time that said that the best cars were made before seventy-four . 
you just do n't see cars like that . 
and they last a long time . 
and they were simple too , 
the engines were simple and durable 
and some people will still buy them , 
i guess it 's still easy to find engines for those cars , engines and transmissions 
and i guess if you keep changing them out you can keep a car for a long time . 
course i guess i could do the same thing with the toyota that i have , 
it almost costs so much to fix anything or do anything with it , you 're just better off buying another car . 
i guess so , 
but i just think they cost too much in the first place , now a days . 
my voice ? 
i am from kentucky . originally . 
the topic today was gardening , and lawn care ? 
i know , 
we are about to hit it in , few minutes . 
i figured i could make this call and get it over with . 
we are going to mow and trim and edge , 
and that is all we have been doing all weekend . 
you know what ? 
it seems like we are doing it here forever . 
we bought a large house that was completely unlandscaped . 
it probably was up to your shoulder in thistles . 
that was all that was there . 
and we hired a professional landscaper to do it . 
and i have since then probably ripped out half of what he has done because it has always been incorrectly planted 
or the plants do not make the winter time . 
and so i am kind of at this point getting a little bit broke and deciding that what we are going to do is we are just going to struggle through the rest of this year , probably through the fall too . and rip out all the rest of these junipers or anything that requires more care than i am willing to give the kids and replace it with hollies . 
how many kids do you have ? 
just two , 
but they are just eighteen months apart 
so it seems like a lot more . 
how old are they ? 
four and five . 
four and five . 
i have got a four year old and a four month old . and an eight year old stepdaughter . 
i have a twenty six year old stepson , 
and i do not know if that counts . 
you do not have to tend to him . 
i did for many years . 
you did . 
it is over with . 
he is gone . 
it is over with . 
back to gardening . 
are you one of these howard garrett , organic enthusiasts or a , neil sperry , nuke the lawn with chemicals ? 
if i can just nuke it , i would do it . 
but i do not . 
it is like i will get out there and pull my weeds . 
i do not have a real big front yard . 
but i do have half of it is a flower bed , just about , all by the porch . 
because the porch is pretty big , 
i live in town . 
but just pulling all the weeds out of that just drives me nuts . 
i do not like it . 
and i just went out this weekend and bought me some plants and stuff . 
and i just plowed through the whole nine yards . 
got up everything . 
there was some plants that are just spring bloomers 
when the blooms died , the leaves were just horrible looking . 
so i just broke all them off . 
it was a hyacinth . 
have you ever seen those ? 
they are pretty in the spring . 
but the leaves , i do not like them . 
are you sure they are hyacinths ? 
because that is a bulb . 
it is a bulb . 
you should of just ripped the whole thing out . 
because i like the plant in the spring . 
i love those pink flowers . 
they are just pretty . 
so i just cut the leaves off and transplant and put some other plants down . because i want them to come back up next year . 
is this the first year they have been up ? 
let me tell you , 
they do not come back very well at all . 
maybe they will up further north . 
and you are not that much further north . 
i have probably planted around here maybe six hundred bulbs . 
of hyacinths ? 
i have done hyacinths . 
of everything . 
but i have just learned from doing hyacinths that if you really like them what you do is you dig the bulbs up and then you throw them away after they are done blooming . because they do not take the heat here . 
and if they do come back next year , they are going to look real puny . 
they will ? 
about the only bulb that repeats well in my area is the daffodil and some of the narcissus bulb . 
i have got some daffodils . 
and , everybody down here calls these flags . the irises i guess , 
they call them flags ? 
that is what they call them down here . 
they get just one bloom on the plant . 
i am not sure what they are called . 
when does it bloom ? 
i think they are stopped blooming now , in the spring . 
and what color ? 
they come in all different colors . 
the blooms are , on some of them is yellow , purple , white . just all different colors . 
and you only get one of them ? 
per bulb . 
you get one big flower that looks like a lily . 
i do not know what they are called . 
i do not know what i have called them . 
but when i come down here , everybody told me they are flags . 
you know what i bet you 
they are ? 
and i am a pretty good gardener 
because i have killed a lot of things here 
and i have planted a lot of them . 
and i work on a landscape committee for our neighborhood . 
and our neighborhood is a planned development with seven hundred and fifty-five families . 
but we have about sixty acres that we have to plant . 
it is some type of lily . 
what color is yours blooming ? 
i have got some in the backyard that bloomed blue . which i would have liked those in the front because they match my porch and stuff better . and then some on the side of the house with the dusty purple color . with little purple spots that it will fade into a solid purple . 
and what does the foliage look like ? 
does it fit that , 
green spiky leaves . 
now it looks almost like a hyacinth only a lot higher . 
and it is a bulb . 
i bet you what those things are , is a dutch iris . 
dutch irises . 
i bet you it is a dutch iris . 
on the flower , does it have a beard on it at all ? 
any kind of fuzzies ? 
i really do not know . 
i am going to bet you that , 
that has got to be blooming this time of year . 
they are dead now . 
i was just going to correct myself . 
they bloom in the spring . 
because they would have bloomed pretty early . 
they bloomed in the spring . 
right about after the daffodils ? 
right about the same time or after . 
i will bet you those are dutch iris . 
i took and just mowed over them last year . 
i do not much care for them . 
after the bloom dies , they are not pretty . 
and to me it just looks like a bunch of leaves . 
but i took them out of my front yard , 
and i just threw them on the side , intending to transplant them or throw them away or something . and forgot about them through the whole winter . 
i went out there this spring , 
and they had took root right where they were , on top of each other . 
and they told me that they are the hardest things to kill . 
but they are real easy to grow . 
does that help ? . 
then it is not a dutch iris then . 
i am not sure what it is . 
they said that they are irises . 
it is some type of iris though . 
but they call them flags down here . 
i am not so sure that texans know what they have got . 
i do not know what it is . 
i am just getting into gardening this year . 
did you just move down here ? 
we moved here a year ago . 
last spring . 
we moved in this house , may of last year . 
so it was really too late to do much . 
because i have probably got , a big circular driveway . 
the whole perimeter bordering the house is all in texas wildflower beds . 
and i am into that . 
and it looks quite formal . 
it really does , 
it looks quite formal . 
but it has been about three or four years of playing around with flowers to decide which ones actually grow here . 
what kind of blue ? 
i want blue and purple and just different shades of that . because my house is gray , 
you want blue ? 
and blue looks so pretty against it . 
blue is hard . 
do you want a perennial flower that will bloom all summer ? 
i would like to have one that would bloom next year too . that will come back up . 
put in a perennial blue salvia . 
the plant itself will grow about eighteen inches tall . 
and it will send out a flower spike . 
you will see them blooming now . 
it is a wildflower here , 
but you can get them in the nursery . 
i am looking for a pen . 
that is where i went this year . 
because i waited too late to really plant stuff . 
like i said , i do not know anything about plants . 
i did not know the hyacinths were going to die . 
the nursery men will sell you things here . 
and they are kind of in a labor of love . 
the other thing to do if you , really like the hyacinths is that before you plant those bulbs , stick them in the refrigerator for five weeks or so to cool them . 
that is what i did with my plants . 
i had bought these celosias or whatever . 
and they will not grow down here . 
perennial . 
blue . 
salvia . 
salvia . 
and now that will bloom all summer long 
but it insists on full sun . 
i guess , i just went and bought me just about nineteen dollars worth of little , already grown . 
and it looks pretty good out there . 
i will tell you another plant that is purply . 
it is kind of a purply blue red . 
it is really a pretty plant . 
it is sold down here as purple buddy . 
purple buddy ? 
it is not a perennial , 
it is an annual . 
but it will take the heat down here . 
purple buddy . 
purple buddy . 
its proper name is gomphrena . 
how do you spell that ? 
g o m p h r e n a . 
gomphrena . 
and is sold as purple buddy or sometimes sold as straw flower . 
and they make about a foot high plant . 
and they send out this spike that has this purple ball on the top of it . 
i do not know . 
how big a city is rome ? 
you have heard about dallas , 
and the crime here is pretty bad . 
rome is pretty small . 
i was going to say . 
we hear a lot about new york city . 
there is a lot of crime down there . 
and i am afraid to go down there because you hear about people getting mugged . 
you leave your car for ten minutes 
and it is stripped when you come back . 
have you ever been there ? 
i have not . 
only to the airport . 
that is probably enough to see . 
are you in college right now ? 
i work for the air force . 
so , there is a base up here . 
that 's interesting concept . 
are bases safe ? 
bases are pretty safe because they check your i d on your way in . 
they , minimize the access . 
at new years , we had some people come in and attack one of the planes . because they were protesting the presence over in the persian gulf . 
that is wonderful . 
we lived in minneapolis . 
we moved here about ten months ago . 
we live in north dallas which is near a suburb called plano . 
so we are out of the city , 
but it is bad everywhere in terms of the handgun situation the number of rapes , the number of muggings . 
just , i would not say it is not as bad as new york , 
but it is pretty scary . 
people put bars on their windows in certain neighborhoods 
they call them ornamental grates . 
but they are still bars . 
that makes it bad for getting out during a fire . 
it really does . 
and if you are a little bit claustrophobic 
but . i do not know , 
the jails are crowded . 
i am not a criminal justice specialist , 
so i do not know what can be done . 
i do not know , 
i think it is getting worse . because i keep hearing things 
my parents live in boston . 
but i went home , 
and we were watching t v , 
and this thing came on where a group of five or six guys went and filmed themselves beating up people in the street and robbing them . 
and it was really disgusting . 
and my mom was `` they should just be all shot right now . '' 
were they teenagers 
like that girl in new york that got beat up when she was jogging in central park , a couple of years ago ? 
i think they were early twenties . 
they were young men . 
i know it . 
how deprived could they be if they had a camcorder ? 
those are a thousand bucks . 
unless they stole it . 
and that is one big thing down here . 
and they are not all young . 
they are eighteen to twenty-four , some of the young men and women . 
but you can see the crime stoppers ads on television . 
sometimes it is the same people that have been observed 
and they still ca n't catch them . 
and you are wondering how we lived in minneapolis and wisconsin . 
i know it is getting worse . 
i do not know what the world is or is not . 
in a small town in wisconsin , near madison a young boy somehow got a hold of a shotgun . and killed his parents and his three brothers and sisters . 
and they said that he was twelve years old , 
and he had not displayed any tendencies deviant or disturbed or whatever . 
i know . 
i do not know . 
i wonder where he gets it ? 
i do not know how it is in the air force base . 
but i just do not think a lot of people both need to work . 
i just do not think a lot of parents are that involved any more . 
they do not talk to their kids and take them out . and are not there all the time 
so the kids are off to their own devices a lot . 
and discipline . 
i do not know how your folks were , 
but i sure knew as heck when i was growing up that my parents were the superior 
and i was the subordinate . 
and it was sort of like there were boundaries . 
and i do not know , 
i think today a lot of parents are ruled by their kids . 
i think so definitely . 
they are not learning boundaries . 
i see it in work place too , sometimes . 
i do not know how old you are , 
but you sound a little bit younger than me . 
but , i am in my thirties , 
i hate to say it , 
but that 's just what it is . 
it is an attitude like the world owes them something . 
i see that too in the air force . 
do you ? 
especially since a lot of us are engineers where i work . 
are you in the air force ? 
i am in the air force . 
and so people outside the air force doing engineering get paid a lot more than we do . 
get it for all it is worth . 
and i am you are the one who signed up . 
and the air force is one of the better military experiences . 
it is . 
i like it a lot . 
pardon me ? 
i like it so far . 
that is , are you going to be a career person ? 
i 'm digressing , 
but , i do not talk to many people in the military . 
probably not . 
but they pay for my college . 
that is the way to do it . 
i do not know , 
i am nervous in dallas . 
i go to an aerobics class or something . 
and seventy women in a jazzercise class in a public parks and rec building . 
and you are supposed to feel safe , 
it does not matter , 
but it is an inter racial mix . 
and you see these guys standing there watching you jump around in your leotards . 
and i do not even think that way , 
nobody can think that it ca n't happen to them . 
no matter who they are or where they are at . 
and you never know who is watching , either . 
i do not know , 
i was in the grocery store this morning . 
we went to new orleans for four days and came back late last night , driving . 
and it is about seven hours . 
we had never been there . 
that is a very , very neat town to visit . in terms of the french quarter and all of the things you hear about . 
but the crime is so bad there . 
in all the tourist brochures you read about what you should or should not do . 
how to carry your wallet , 
this is new orleans ? 
new orleans , 
i would hate to be there during mardi gras . 
do not even bother . 
it is not worth it . 
i was in the super market this morning 
and on the cover of time magazine , there is a girl , 
she is in boston ? 
she is on the east coast somewhere . 
real attractive young girl . 
college freshman , college coed . 
i think she is a freshman . 
she had been dating a fellow for several weeks . 
they went back to her dorm room 
and date rape . 
she looked anguished . 
it was really just sad . 
did not pick it up and read it , 
but i should have . 
but i just looked at the picture and thought , what a world . 
i know . 
you ca n't trust anybody . 
i do not have any cure , 
it is really scary . 
you really ca n't . 
we lease out a really nice two story town home in north dallas . 
and they have a real big thing here . 
even dry cleaners knock on the door and are soliciting . 
everybody wants your business kind of thing . 
he was raised on a farm in southern ohio , near dayton . 
and i think sometimes it is just , he and i are very different in terms of that . 
i basically have started not to trust anybody in general street smarts . 
and he opened the door . 
i came downstairs 
and i was real upset 
and i probably got more nasty than i should have . 
but i just said , howard , 
you , hear about people opening the door and getting blown away . 
and it is not a reason . 
i have been to new york . 
you should not deny yourself going to visit and all that . 
but it is not any worse . 
are you from boston ? 
home owners savings and loan in boston . 
i have been to downtown new york city 
and i have been to downtown boston . 
and i never felt any safer on milk street in boston , staying at the meridian , 
but i never felt any safer there than i did in any other city i have been in . 
so i would say one thing . 
do not deny yourself the new york experience , but go with people that you know . 
i would not want to go by myself . 
but i do not know . 
i guess i could go on and on about what to do about criminals . 
i am not real big on guns myself . 
i think our justice system needs to be stricter because they do it 
and then they get out in a couple of years it seems like . 
they are booked up . 
i do not know how the new york state prison system is 
but , are they booked up ? 
that is a way to put it , 
they are booked up . 
are they paroling murderers 
and here it is just a real big deal . 
they parole people that have killed police officers 
and then they are out doing it again . 
i do not know . because i am not real up on a lot of news things . 
but you just hear about that , 
it is a lot of repeat crime . 
and you are why are they repeating ? 
they should have been in there longer . 
i know . 
i have not been out of school that long , 
but it has been at least ten years . 
and you think to yourself , was it that bad back then ? 
i think that , like you said , television ? 
is it just that more people think there is excitement in it ? 
people that may have been close to the edge just go over because they see something or read something . 
in boston , there was a case of a couple of kids , fifteen year olds . 
they wanted to see what it was like to kill someone . 
so they picked on this kid who was new in town . 
and they were no one was going to miss him anyway , 
that is horrible . 
how can you even think like that ? 
is n't it something ? 
i am originally from pittsburgh , pennsylvania , 
and i have a niece and nephew . 
my ten year old nephew says things that he is aware of that i am just going , michael , how did you hear about that ? 
i think kids get too much too fast . and all those sort of things . 
in atlanta , where my inlaws live they had that thing the high top sneakers , the air jordans , et cetera . 
kids killing each other and beating their brains out . 
for the sneakers . 
or the jackets , the team the raiders and the caps . 
stealing the hundred dollar jackets . 
that is crime where they videoed . 
that is probably one of the most bizarre i have heard of . 
where they videotape themselves . 
wayne , i feel very strongly about parents doing things with their children , and making time available even sometimes when time is n't available . 
how do you feel about it ? 
i feel much the same way . 
i 've two kids right now 
one is two and a half 
and one 's nine months , 
and that age , of course , everything you do they 're trying to learn to do , 
and so it 's important for you to spend time doing the things that you want them to learn that they need to learn at the age reading and playing nice with others , and that sort of thing . 
we went through this with our children , and now with our grandchildren , 
and i 've always tried to do things with them like , when you 're at the little league , helping out even though i 'm not a good athlete myself , 
i was able to help the coach in just controlling the kids , if nothing else , 
and we 've always tried to take our children and our grandchildren to see and do things that otherwise they might not be able to . 
i think that 's just part of their overall educational process , is to get out and see and do things . 
we have lived several places around the u s 
and where we 've lived , we 've taken them to see and do things of interest and of historical significance in the area , 
when we lived in tennessee , we took them to washington , d c to see all the capitol and things like that when they were small . 
and it helps the children when they 're learning in school , to say , i 've been there 
and i 've seen that . 
that 's the type , 
it certainly does , because the things in the books seem so dead to the kids unless they 've actually been there or whatever , 
because i remember our family we went everywhere . 
and seeing new england and being on plymouth rock and stuff like that really made the whole thing more visual . 
and we could read the things in the history books and understand what they said , when it was we need to raise food quickly because this place gets very cold very soon . 
we 've gone through that , 
i remember my parents did n't do all those type things , 
and so i made a special effort with my children to do things like that . 
and even now with my grandchildren , i feel it 's a very important thing to be done . 
because if kids do n't look up to you , or , ca n't feel they can spend time with you , they 're going to find someone else 
and nowadays there 's a lot of people out there that you do n't want your kid emulating or whatever . 
i think it was in the sixth grade , 
they had to write a little brief autobiography of themselves , and about what they had done and what they wanted to do , 
and i was very proud when my son wrote that he wanted to have a family and be able to help coach little league and do things like his dad had done with him . 
a real point of pride with me . 
that is nice . 
it sounds like we both have colds . 
it 's , ten o'clock here in falls church , virginia . 
so that the only reason i 'm home is because i 'm home with a cold . 
and the wife says , you need something to do , 
talk to a guy on the phone . 
i 'm sitting here on the ninth floor of an office building on the north side of dallas , texas . 
we 're kind of far apart here . 
this is a very interesting program i heard about here on this , 
and when i signed up for it , it looked like it could make a real contribution in participating . 
i 'm an electrical engineer by trade here in virginia . 
likewise we do some projects every now and then . 
we like to get support from other companies as well . 
i 'm an accountant presently working as a contractor liquidating a failed savings and loan . 
trying to work myself out of a job . 
but , it 's been an interesting roughly nine months here , 
and again , this is our home area . 
we 've lived here about seventeen years , 
we enjoy living here . 
it 's where we originally started out , 
and we 've lived up north for a while in chicago and over in tennessee . 
so , wound up back about two hundred miles away from where we started out . 
that 's about all i can think to talk about right now . 
it 's been a pleasure talking with you . 
thank you . 
i live right on the ocean 
so it 's kind of hard for me to tell what would happen if i lived in some of the valleys inland , 
but the major cause here is the car pollution . 
we do n't have too much industrial pollution . 
car pollution seems to be the one and only thing that i can really put my finger on here . 
that is n't the same in the washington area because we do n't have any major industry except for government and services . 
and the transportation situation is such that all the car pollution is absolutely awful . 
in this general area there is national , dulles , and then baltimore , washington . 
interestingly some of the information i 've been reading indicates that the amount of air pollution from airplanes is extraordinary . 
is that so ? 
i did n't know that . 
and that 's always something that you do n't think about . 
most people talk about the noise pollution from airplanes rather than the air pollution . 
apparently the air pollution and the fact that it 's delivered right up in high altitudes is a very significant factor . 
i would think so . 
i guess it talked about all types of pollution . 
i just read something the other day 
at least in the boston paper there were three things that come to note . 
one , is that the carbon fluorides that are being released into the atmosphere are causing even a larger hole in the southern hemisphere in the ozone layer 
and now they 've located another one or rather an expanding one in the northern hemisphere . 
so i 'm quite concerned . 
from what i understand it 's air conditioning units 
and , we certainly turned into an air conditioned society . 
i know in florida there 's no place you go that is n't air conditioned , 
and i do quite a bit of business in washington . 
you know what it 's like here . 
it 's really out of the norm not to find something that is n't air conditioned . 
and i guess refrigerators , are the same way . 
they release that . 
that 's right . 
i guess to me the first thing is i wish society would get as upset about this as you do get , getting people upset about animal rights . 
this is so basic . 
it 's human rights in the sense , 
but demanding that we can spend so much money on certain things but that research really be directed toward improvement of polluting vehicles , and not just cars but also buses planes . that something can be done . 
every car now in america that 's been produced for the past fifteen years has what they call a catalytic converter . 
converter , 
and no lead gas came to the pumps . 
and that 's been done . 
there 's the lead pollution 
that problem , essentially was licked . 
and i think that there are solutions , 
certainly we do n't even need a research anymore . 
it 's just a matter of passing the law , 
and passing the law depends on how heavy the automobile lobby is . 
that 's right . 
and also to make it economically feasible . 
and also in buses . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i do n't know if you ever got caught in a traffic jam behind a bus , 
the smell is awful 
but i was reading the other day that , diesel fumes actually have less pollutants in them than gasoline fumes . 
so , i guess you 're better off sitting behind a bus than a car although i could never , really rationalize that while i was sitting there . 
but even , of course , in the longer term just to get away from fossil fuels . 
we 've taken the intermediate step 
but i do n't think , fossil fuels are the answer . 
right close to where i live is the seabrook nucleus site which is , practically a guerilla war up here , 
went on for years . 
my daughters marched against the seabrook 
my feelings were that we needed this bridge to jump from fossil fuel to whatever it was going to be . 
you do n't throw the baby out with the bath water , and condemning nuclear use . 
unfortunately though i think the oil companies have lied to us for years . 
so we really do n't know whether there 's enough fossil fuel left or there is n't , 
but with the pollution issue fossil fuel is not the way to go anyway . 
so you 've got to look elsewhere . 
but it is something that 's a little frightening 
i have two sons , 
one is already in college in new england , 
and the other will be going in september , 
and we just feel that when we leave this area , we 're going north , not south . 
i like the mentality north , 
and i also like the fresher air up there . 
that 's right . 
so that 's the way we will be going . 
so , i 'd be interested in having spoken with somebody also from the far west on this issue to see how their attitudes are . 
i read that the other day . 
louisiana for a small state it was amazing 
but it 's the industrial pollution i should imagine . 
and california seems to be taking steps , 
you read about the fairly stiff laws they put in on cars now they 're enforcing . 
but again that did n't occur without a crisis . 
nothing will occur without a crisis . 
even california was notorious for its smog years ago , before it even was an issue , out here . 
the greatest thing that happened to pollution in the last couple of years as far as i 'm concerned , is the no smoking rules , on airplanes and in restaurants . 
and it really is a pleasure for me , although , i guess smokers do n't think that . 
but that , to me was pollution , 
that 's personal air pollution . 
that was its most personal , pollution that i can think of . 
i , definitely advance that . 
listen 
i enjoyed speaking with you . 
and let 's hope there are other people that feel the same way . 
something happen . 
thank you . 
you 're welcome . 
you live in dallas ? 
i live in dallas . 
i understand that the real estate market out there has really gone crazy , up and down , up and down . 
i think right now it 's kind of bad . 
i do n't live in a house , 
i live in an apartment . 
are you in a house ? 
we have a single family home in northern virginia just outside of washington . 
i guess the best i can do is , compare apartments . 
if it can compare the one that i have now , with the one that i had the last time , the one that i have now has a lot more amenities than the one that i moved out of . 
this one gave us free cable and ceiling fans 
and it was practically new when i moved in here 
and the carpet was new 
do you live in the high-rise ? 
it 's not a high-rise . 
it 's just a two story building . 
but there are a lot of buildings 
but it 's just two stories . 
on the second floor they do n't have a patio 
but they have a sunroom instead of the patio . 
on the first floor where i am , there 's a patio . 
so you have one floor all to yourself ? 
the rooms are nice and large 
and , let 's see , 
i have two bedrooms . 
that 's nice . 
do you get your own washer , dryer ? 
i have a washer and dryer area 
and i did buy the washer and dryer , 
but they did n't provide it . 
the one that i moved from did n't have a place to put them , 
and that 's one of the reasons that i did move . 
that is nice . 
get tired of dragging clothes to the laundromat . 
i 've always been pretty lucky . 
the real estate out here 's been pretty good . 
the prices came down last year . 
we had sort of a dallas syndrome . 
the past year and a half prices have gone down which is totally new for northern virginia . 
it just never happened before . 
so it 's really surprising everybody . 
all the developers do n't know what to do . 
it 's a good time to buy , if you 're in the market . 
we actually have our house on the market because we have two kids 
and we have a three bedroom house . 
and it 's pretty much filled up right now . 
so you want a bigger one . 
get an extra bedroom or a basement . 
right now it 's just a single level rambler . 
one thing about the houses in dallas , they do n't utilize basements the way they did in new york . 
my parents in new york had a three family house . 
and then they rented the third floor with the whole apartment . 
and they had a basement , 
and they finished the basement , 
and they were able to rent that out also . 
but in dallas i just have n't seen basements in houses . 
and i 've looked at a lot of them . 
a friend of mine was thinking about coming down there , 
and that 's what he said was that it just was n't something that people had down there . 
they put pools and garages on , but no basements . 
i have yet to see a basement in a house . 
maybe it 's all the sand . 
i always think it 's like a desert , 
i do n't know . 
i do n't see that kind of sand here . 
or the foundation is sinking or something just a little bit , some more than others . 
but you have to know the right spot , to pick where that does n't happen . 
out here we live in what used to be a prairie or whatever a natural grasslands . 
it 's just , you go down four inches 
and fourteen inches you get to sandstone . 
and so any place where they put a basement in they had to blast . 
i see . 
it 's just solid sandstone . 
where did you say you 're at , colorado ? 
virginia . 
virginia , 
virginia . 
that 's right . 
it 's sort of unusual really . 
most of virginia is clay . 
anywhere near virginia beach ? 
my folks used to live there . 
back before i was born , they lived there . 
in texas i 'll say 
because down in east texas there 's a lot of red clay . 
and in the dallas fort worth city areas you do n't see that . 
texas is a big state 
so i imagine the type of houses and things like that are truly different from area to area . 
but that 's the same way out here 
because for example , we live fifteen miles from the beltway that surrounds washington 
and anything instead the highway , the real estate 's forty thousand dollars more expensive . 
so i could never afford a house inside the beltway . 
that 's why we came out here . 
this is called the country with only maybe twenty miles total from d c , twenty-five from the city . 
but it 's considered the country since it 's that far out . 
but 
we live out by dulles airport . 
i see . 
and that 's one of the few places still in northern virginia 
they have trailer parks that are down around the corner from here 
and it 's still pretty rural . 
not too much of northern virginia is like that anymore . 
land has gotten so expensive 
they just ca n't afford to have low income housing like that . 
is your house in an area by itself ? 
we 're in a development . 
it 's not connected to another one ? 
there 's another one a quarter acre away rather . 
but they 're not connected are they ? 
you have to stay in one single family home . 
i sort of got spoiled with that when i was growing up . 
my folks had an apartment for a while when we were kids 
and pennsylvania always had a single family home 
and so as soon as we could we got a single family home , 
and that 's all i ever knew growing up , 
this is betty 
and i 'm in richardson , texas . 
i 'm nola 
and i 'm in plano . 
here we go . 
i guess we 're going to have a lot of parades this weekend in honor of these guys that did some stuff over in the gulf . 
did you push one ? 
i have n't pushed one yet . 
i just started doing this 
so i do n't know too much about it . 
we 're just sort of getting acquainted here . 
i just wanted to see if you had an opinion about this , 
so , if that 's okay with you , then i 'll just press one . 
that will be fine . 
if i start this i just wanted to say that one of the things that i do n't think we really understood about the middle eastern situation is that they 're a totally different type of people than we are , 
and they think differently 
and their idea of what is justice is totally different from ours . 
i think we should just leave them alone . 
i really do . in a major way because that whole region over there needs to settle its own differences within itself . 
and that 's the course that they should go , 
we can maybe help them a little bit , prompt them , 
but i do n't think this intervention at such high levels should be going on . 
the thing with israel and palestine , i believe that should be settled between them . 
and also the other thing is our idea of democracy has nothing to do with them . 
and maybe this is too general , 
but i just believe that they do not look at democracy the same way we do . 
they do n't understand it as we do n't understand the way they live . 
i do n't think that that 's the way to go in this 
and that 's a couple thoughts on it . 
i guess i 'd like you to maybe express something here . 
i think overall that 's right . 
i think it 's kind of sad though , that , for generations they 've been taught to hate each other . 
somewhere in there someone 's going to have to learn a different way . 
we do have completely different ways of looking at a lot of things , 
but at the same time , i think there is a lot of good that the united states and other countries can do , as far as example 
and , , i think some different things could come from what 's happened , than what we expect . 
i guess we could be a catalyst for their change . 
the war has certainly sort of set things on end over there 
and i do n't think we 'd be talking about this unless there had been a war . 
that was one thing , that came out of it , good or bad , 
i do n't judge any war as good or bad , 
it 's just a war . 
and i do n't see any winners or losers , 
i just see dead bodies . 
i 'm sorry , 
but i just think you 're right 
and i think maybe it 's at a whole different level of them trying to cooperate and get along . 
it 's not going to be that we 're going to sort of , tell them to go to their room 
and that 's going to solve the whole problem . 
it 's going to be them , 
but , that 's the type of thing they understand . 
they do n't understand any other way . 
and so at that , you have to work at their level , to an extent , too . 
that 's true too , 
they would n't have understood anything else than what we did in the war . 
they understand violence . 
there was nothing else . 
they love violent leaders , to , 
look at the leader they had . 
they just adored him , because he was so strict and cruel , 
i ca n't figure out why they adored him . 
it has a lot to do with their religion . 
and i know this only because from personal experience , 
because i 've , traveled around town with different cab drivers in a situation where i 've done that 
and one of the kindest people i 've ever met in my whole life is from that area of the country 
and he is abounding in kindness , let 's say . 
and his wife is so godly 
every thought , 
they have a totally different life than we have . 
and when you add the commercialization of the western world it sort of screws everything up for them . 
and they have very basic life , 
it 's just a very basic life 
and they just really believe in allah , or god , or whatever . 
and everything is to the glory of allah , 
what 's sad is that the leaders that have control are power , 
and they abuse that . 
and it 's always been military 
and it 's always been , 
and that 's always been the way of the world . do n't you think . 
which i think that that 's not the way the majority of the people over there really are . 
so it 's really hard , when you see the leaders , compared to the people . 
but i think in a way all , the involvement over there too , though , has shown that there are a lot of people that do n't follow what those few are doing . 
and there are a lot of people who are good people . 
and i think we may not have ever have seen that without some of these newspeople being in there in the broadcasts and . 
and surrendering , 
it just really comes down to people are people , 
you have to have some compassion some humanness . 
that 's right . 
does n't matter where the boundaries are . 
there are political boundaries 
and those are man made boundaries , 
but for heaven sakes , that 's something that 's been going on for ages , 
and i think so much of it is what you 're taught . 
that 's true . 
national health insurance is a problem inasmuch as the quality of health care that people would receive . 
stay in line for four hours to get an aspirin from a doctor . 
i 'm sort of mixed on this . 
i think that the answer may lie not in so much a national kind of medical thing like england has but more of a national insurance sort of clearinghouse or whatever . 
the problem right now is that we 've got too many different health insurances that people have to go through 
and i think you mentioned canada . 
you go to whoever you want but file through one particular , setup 
i see . 
and that way they are able to reduce prices because it 's all one centralized thing . 
i think that again having gone through a period when i was out of work and had to buy health insurance on my own , if you do n't have a company picking up the major portion of your health insurance , the cost is almost prohibitive . 
i was listening on the radio the other day 
they could make it , provide health insurance to people who could n't afford it just by the money they would save . 
we 're currently , where i 'm working now , under blue cross . 
i do n't know what the total cost of the program is 
but for dependent coverage i 'm paying a hundred and seventy dollars a month or something like that . 
so i assume that probably the total cost is probably , three fifty to four hundred . 
they 're probably picking up about half of it . 
and that 's a pretty good policy , 
or one of , whatever the type name is , h m o where you go to the doctor and it only costs you ten dollars and the insurance picks up the rest . if you tried to buy something like that , it would probably be five or six hundred dollars a month for just the cost of something . 
h m o . 
and they 're fairly expensive . 
i was on an h m o up until last year through work . 
i forget how much i paid a month 
but it is at least twice if not more expensive than the regular health care . 
and the reason i quite was not because i did n't like it , 
i really kind of did . 
the reason i quite was just because a certain doctor that we enjoyed going to was no longer associated with that h m o 
so my wife decided she wanted to stay with that doctor , 
so , we went to the medical insurance that we have here at work , 
once you find the doctor that you like it 's not a problem . 
a lot of people complain saying i do n't want to have to be told who i need to go to 
but if you do n't have a doctor anyway normally it does n't really make much difference . if you find someone you really like 
that 's right . 
and then , we did find several good doctors . 
and like you say it 's five dollars an office visit . 
and my wife was in the hospital had our daughter 
and i think her total bill was around three hundred dollars for everything . 
that included the doctors , the time , the hospital an- , everything . delivery room and everything . 
delivery room and everything . 
including a private room because there was a little extra that she had to pay 
but that was still included in that cost 
it 's really nice because their attitude is different than in a , h m o , 
they 're trying to prevent a problem by keeping the cost down at the front end and have you come in , 
they charge five dollars a pop , 
you 're more willing to go in and try , to take care of a problem before it grows big . 
because they do n't have to worry about going in and paying seventy-five dollars to have the doctor look at you for ten minutes . 
i really liked it . 
my wife and i both did . 
you do n't have to worry about filling out forms for reimbursement and all or getting paid eight percent of whatever . 
you just pay the five dollars right then 
and then you 're done with it . 
but here again the doctor 's practices in hospitals , have become fairly sizable businesses under themselves now . 
you take a hospital the physical plant itself , 
you have to pay your share of the operating of that eight story building when the rooms are empty . 
so , they spread the costs out over all the patient costs 
and that 's how you come up with aspirin that costs four dollars apiece and things like that . the horror stories that you hear about people going into the hospital for a week and it being , a four thousand dollar bill . 
they 're taking up the cost of people who ca n't pay . 
they get a lot of , people who just have to be there and ca n't afford it 
and so they know they 're not going to get money from them 
so they , have to absorb it somewhere else . 
my daughter and son-in-law had a baby , here , 
he 'll be three in august . 
and their insurance plan that they 're under encourages you to shorten your stay in the hospital . 
and she went in , 
she had the baby 
and she was out in two days time . 
and it was treated almost like it was an outpatient visit to the hospital , 
the deductibles did n't apply . 
and so that 's one way the insurance companies are trying to hold costs down is by if you 'll shorten your stay then we will waive the deductible . 
where was your last vacation ? . 
actually my last vacation was in connecticut . 
we went home to visit family . 
before that we were in hawaii . 
actually i did visit hawaii once 
but i never made it off of oahu , which i 've heard is not the nicest of the islands . 
it was n't actually . 
when we were in oahu , i could n't wait to get off . 
we took a cruise 
and we went to four different islands 
kauai was nice 
and maui was nice . 
we had a great time . 
we were there for ten days . 
so where have you been ? 
i 've been lots of places . 
my last vacation was actually in morocco i guess 
that one would count , 
morocco . 
that was about a year and a half ago , 
an- did you just decide to go there 
my husband is french 
and we were living in france at the time 
and we decided that i 've never been to africa 
and i needed to get that continent since i , had n't been there yet . 
and actually it 's a fairly common vacation place for french people to go 
and they speak french 
so , in that sense is just a little bit easier 
and it just seemed like it would be a fun place to go . 
so we did n't really have enough time . 
i 'm sure it was wonderful . 
we had about , a little bit less than two weeks . 
and as always , it seems a bit rushed . 
we do a lot of traveling around . 
we rented a car and drove pretty much everywhere . 
was it hot ? 
in fact some of the days we froze . 
we were there in the winter . in january or february , 
i do n't remember which , 
i was born in saudi arabia 
and when my father worked there they used to travel quite a bit , all around in europe and whatnot , 
but i was very young 
so i do n't remember that 
and , i was three when we moved back here . 
that 's too bad 
so i do n't remember 
but we have all these wonderful pictures of all these great places that they have been , 
and that was when i was a baby 
so , morocco would be wonderful 
because that area of the world would be great . 
it was a very interesting vacation . 
the only thing i did n't like was in some of the more touristy areas it would just be besieged by people wanting to be your guide 
there would be kids there that were excellent at ripping you off , 
and we had nothing taken because we knew 
and we had things in inside pockets and in jacket underneath a coat type of thing . 
we found that in jamaica . it was the same way , that people would come up and try and sell drugs and things like that 
but they were so destitute 
and i guess they make all their money on tourism 
and they would come up and ask you if you want to buy different things 
and after awhile it really gets annoying , 
it 's a little scary too when they 're coming up and they 're all over you . 
the worst place was in marrakech 
and the other cities it was n't nearly as bad 
and a couple of them it was , 
what we did in some of the other cities is to hire a local guide 
it does n't matter who it is 
and they keep everyone else away from you . 
and it 's worth it 
and it 's ten dollars a day or something 
and it 's worth it just to keep everyone else away from badgering you 
and you feel stupid doing that 
but we did it , 
and we were much happier , 
and you also get in to see things that you might not get into if you were alone , 
that 's great . 
where else have you been ? 
you lived in france , 
so you 've been all through europe . 
actually i have n't been all through europe , 
i have n't been to italy yet . 
we 're going to go for a conference in september 
and so , hopefully , we 'll get to travel a little bit too . 
i 've been to the galapagos islands . 
that was one of the most wonderful vacations i 've ever had . 
lots of wildlife ? 
if you like wildlife , it 's a fabulous vacation . 
if you do n't like wildlife it 's probably not of interest . 
but that was really , really fabulous 
and just the photos i have of it 
and incredible 
and be so close , 
when was that , 
when were you there ? 
august , eighty-eight . 
and then , actually , after there i went to hawaii , 
a lot of my travel has been sort of based around conferences or business meetings 
and so , i went to hawaii and then to australia and japan and china , 
did you see the great barrier reef and go snorkeling ? 
actually i did n't go diving . 
i 'm a diver 
and so , that 's actually been another of my favorite vacations has been taking little diving trips 
diving . 
i did n't get to the great barrier reef . 
i drove from sidney down to melbourne and over to adelaide . 
it 's gorgeous , absolutely gorgeous . 
the coastline was just incredible . 
it 's huge . 
is it really ? 
australia . 
did you have shrimp ? 
they show all this wonderful seafood and great big prawns the big shrimp 
i do n't remember if i had shrimp . 
did n't have shrimp there ? 
i do n't think so . 
i remember food . 
i like that too . 
but in fact i did n't eat out that much there because i was traveling by myself in a car , 
it would have been much more fun to do it in the van , with a bunch of people . 
you 're adventurous . 
you went by yourself . 
and i was by myself in china too . 
china was a little bit more of a challenge . 
but , it was n't more of a challenge in a sense because i hired a guide all the time , 
and so i never got out by myself , or not much , 
was it very expensive ? 
maybe it was about a thousand dollars , maybe a little bit less for ten days including all my meals , a guide , a car , the airfare 
but this is from hong kong , 
you 're kidding ! 
because i was already in hong kong 
but it only cost you about a thousand dollars to go there 
and i went to beijing , shanghai , chengdu 
and actually then i took a train up from shanghai to quingdao . 
it 's a little sort of getaway retreat village not far from shanghai . 
it 's just a train ride . 
i had two internal plane flights and a couple of other things . 
all for a thousand dollars ? 
that really surprises me . 
around a thousand . 
i guess i relate it to japan where things are very expensive , are n't they ? 
japan 's ridiculous . 
and i did n't stay in the top of the line hotels 
they were all completely clean , 
and they were newly built 
and they were sort of the lower end of the top of the line , hotels , because they said you ca n't stay in the cheap stuff . 
i highly recommend that way to go . 
if you 're ever interested in going the route , i dealt with this woman , 
her name was rita at china tours in boston . 
and she just gave me this woman 's name to contact 
and it would really be fun , 
i think ideally with two couples because you have a car and a driver and a guide 
i grew up out in the country and was used to having guns around the place 
and i 'm not for gun control , in the strictest sense of the word . 
i think i 'm kind of bent towards middle liberal of the bridge myself . 
i have quite a collection myself 
and i 'm a good hunter 
and i started hunting when i was twelve years old . 
of course , my parents made me take hunters safety classes 
and i do n't want to see them ban guns completely 
but i do n't want them to completely turn loose of their controls either 
i think national rifle association had this bumper sticker a few years back about if you outlaw guns , only outlaws will have guns then . 
i believe that . 
and i believe that too because the person that is wanting to , commit a crime is going to find a way to get a gun , a knife , a rock , a stick , whatever it is , to commit a crime with , 
and it 's the honest citizens like ourselves that are responsible about use of guns , 
we can handle it 
but there 's an element that ca n't . 
and it 's got to the point now where even our police departments and our d e a agents and everything have to carry automatic weapons 
because everybody that 's in drug trafficking has got them . 
they have got them outgunned . 
you know . 
there was an article in the paper just this week where one of the gun companies was developing a ten millimeter automatic pistol for the f b i which would give them additional firepower . 
it held a fifteen shot clip , , they would be able to put down anything that came at them , 
but you figure you got some drug guy out there that 's got an uzi machine gun a thirty-eight , 
smith and wesson revolver is n't going to do you much good . 
it 's sure not . 
i have lived in illinois at one time 
it was n't really gun control 
you had to register as a gun owner , 
you did n't have to list your guns , 
but you had to have this card , 
it was like a driver 's license card that you had to have it in order to buy ammunition 
this was twenty years ago . 
but they had that so that they were trying to control it a little bit in that respect . 
in california they make you register when you buy ammunition . 
they take your name and driver 's license number , hunting license number and all that good stuff , before you can buy any big ammunition . especially for handguns , 
rifles are n't too bad , 
but any kind of handgun at all and a rifle you would still have to buy it , or sign up for it , 
we lived in tennessee for awhile 
and i bought a pistol there 
and there was a fifteen day waiting period . 
you had to fill out an application and , go down to the sheriff 's office and get fingerprinted 
and , then you had fifteen days while they checked to see if you had any kind of criminal record before you could pick up the gun you were purchasing . 
that 's not a bad idea . 
i think that a waiting period can make a difference 
but again it 's going to be the law abiding citizen that 's going to comply with that . 
it is . 
the only way they could do it would be to stiffen the penalties on anybody using a gun . 
course , i feel kind of weird about that 
anyway , i think if somebody shoots somebody , they ought to be shot . 
we 're getting into capital punishment now . 
it would definitely be gun control . 
again the purpose of gun control is to control how it is being used is what the purpose should be . 
it 's not to keep people from buying a gun that need one for a specific purpose , legal purpose but to keep the guy that 's illegal from getting his hands on one . 
and i 'm in favor of keeping the illegal guy from getting one in his hands 
but , the legal person or lawful person should not be penalized because there is the criminal element . 
myself . 
and they 're actually a necessity in life . 
not everybody needs a gun 
but sooner or later i need one . 
i did in the service but not on the street 
so i do n't really need one in the , 
you do n't have to carry one in your car or your pocket all the time . 
so i use mine for recreation , 
and i enjoyed my guns . 
i have a good time with them 
i know what , 
i took my kids out and taught them how to shoot a gun . 
my wife the same thing , 
she knows how to shoot any weapon that we have 
not that i have an arsenal or anything , 
but we have several guns around the house 
living in dallas there 's not that many places to go shoot 
but still i think they ought to know how to use one and that it 's not just a toy and that it 's not like on t v when someone gets shot they get back up . 
if someone gets shot with a , real gun they do n't get back up . 
i 've got a six year old now 
i have a fifteen year old and a seventeen year old 
they understand now . 
i 've taken time to teach them 
and now the young boy wants to know 
and i told him , you 're a little bit young for a gun . 
let me go out here 
and we would start with the b b gun deal , 
so he started with the b b gun and shot a couple of holes in a couple of windows 
and i took it away from him , 
i said now , you know , 
so he 's learning the hard way 
but at least it was a b b gun not a twenty-two or a four ten or something 
i remember i had an old uncle up by tulsa , oklahoma that took me out and showed me . 
it was my mother 's uncle , 
this was a gentleman in his sixties , 
and he took me out with him and single shot twenty-two , and taught me how to shoot . 
we went squirrel hunting 
and , he taught me how to shoot a old single shot twenty-two 
and , i was probably about twelve at the time , 
and i thought that was the neatest thing 
and , of course uncle sam took me hunting with him 
and he let me shoot and showed me how . 
i think there is a lot of responsibility on any of us gun owners to make sure that whoever is around us is at least safe and knows how to use one . 
i do n't want to get out there deer hunting and have some guy blow me away , 
we agreed pretty well on this i think . 
i think so . 
it 's been real nice talking with you . 
have a good one . 
the reason there seems to be so much was the fact that the police now had advanced reporting methods , with computers and other devices . 
compile more statistics . 
that 's right , 
and those statistics in turn got them bigger budgets . 
however , i have been persuaded , lately simply by the overwhelming data that seems to be available that there is indeed a lot more violent crime . 
more especially where you are . 
are you , in washington d c or washington state ? 
i am in washington d c . 
i was going to say , 
i do a lot of business here , 
and i come here quite often 
and that again is a sort of media perception 
there 's some absolutely lovely and marvelous and peaceful areas in washington . regardless of the racial makeup , 
it just really grabs your attention . 
it just makes the whole place seem like that . 
when , bennett became the drug czar for president bush , he was going to focus on this area and do something about it 
and i see that even he was met with little success , even though quite a bit of money and other planning efforts went into that . 
what do you think is causing all this , 
crime , though i think it is increasing in number , it sure does seem to be increasing in intensity , and violence too . 
i have three theories about it three things . 
i have one theory , 
and it 's brought to us by two things . 
one i believe that this is a function of the violence that young people see on television and the movies . 
and , i am not just talking about role models of tough guys and gangsters and things like that , 
the immediate need to show some sort of violence to settle the argument . 
and then i am an advocate of hand gun control to some degree , 
i think it 's corpus christi , that had the highest rates per hand gun death in america per capita . 
i have not seen that , 
the saturday night special stuff 
that 's what i think about it , 
that 's some of the things i think about it , 
plus i do not know , 
what are your views ? 
it seems anymore a movie can not be considered good unless there 's just some sort of violence , or something in it . 
and then you start making a movie 
and there 's no call for something violent , 
so they just throw something in there just to say they have it . 
that 's the impression i get . 
and i imagine that it just feeds upon itself when we have this sort of violence in society , 
it conditions people to it 
it has to be even magnified to attract people 's attention to have them spend money on something like that . 
you become callous . 
and i am sure that it does form role models for young men and young women 
young women are arrested fighting with knives over whatever reason , which is kind of unheard of when i was young . 
i do not want to sound like an old fart , 
seems that those things did not happen in that manner before television . 
and i have to think that it has some influence on it . 
i listened to a radio talk show today at lunch time rush lynn bottom 
i do not know if you listen to him or not , 
he 's on a m , 
there was an interview done on the assistant chief of police for los angeles , the guy under gates , 
and they were just really coming down on him because of just some of the things that he believed in , some of his morals . 
for instance they asked him if he spanked his kids , 
and he said `` you bet , 
i believe in discipline '' . 
and people , i guess they confused discipline with punishment . 
it seems anymore that if you have this type of a moral stance , that people come down on you . 
it 's everybody has to be free to do their own thing . 
and i disagree , 
and i think that 's really contributing to this high rate of crime . 
i guess what i wanted to say and i stopped was that , there 's so much of a return to prison that the rehabilitation programs seem to be a failure . 
and that is not emphasized . 
i recognize there 's over crowding problems 
and since we have decided to put everybody in jail that commits a crime now , that 's complicated the entire process . 
it does not seem to be any responsibility to the community where you live 
or . i do not mean attachment and responsibility , 
nobody feels responsibility to do something . 
it 's i wish they would stop doing that . 
that 's right . 
the changes come simply by statutory nature . 
i do not know what it really will take . 
i am sort of an advocate of having free speech 
and i guess to curb the violence on television and in the movies would be contrary to my beliefs in that . 
it does seem to be a higher need for something of that sort . 
and the sacrifice is not that great . 
what you see affects how you think and therefore what you do . 
i think that 's correct . 
and 
i have lived in and out of texas , both in the service and short business stints . 
and it seems to me they are a pretty tough law and order state , 
but yet that does not seem to have effected the amount of violent right in the state . 
just citing that . 
a lot of it can be contributed to the racial differences just that we are so close , to the border with mexico , 
we have got a lot of that influence . 
i guess i 'll just start by saying that we entertain with a gourmet club here . which means that we have eight people , four couples . 
this is really peculiar , 
most of the husbands cook . 
the wives during the day get so burned out on cooking whatever they have to cook every day . 
they do n't really care about gourmet stuff , 
but it was the guys that got together and did all this . 
that 's nice . 
and my husband just , he really , really likes to cook in terms of barbecue , 
and all guys like to barbecue . 
i think it 's caveman , 
i 'm telling you , 
but he really does cook 
and it 's a good thing because you ca n't knock that . 
but all these other guys do too , 
and so we 've gotten together 
and we just do these really elaborate gourmet meals . 
and it 's really , really kind of a neat thing to do . 
how often do you meet ? 
we try , 
because everybody is so active with their kids and all that . 
it 's like if we can do it once every six months , we 're doing well . 
so we originally started out when we were younger and did n't have so much stuff going on with the kids . 
then we tried to do it every other month , 
but lately it 's just been once every six months . 
that 's much more reasonable . 
i was involved in a club where we tried to really do gourmet meals . 
and we were a little bit too frequent i think . 
i do n't remember if we were once a month 
or anyway it was difficult . 
so by the time we got around to each of us and it was time again , we were almost tired partly because gourmet cooking is not particularly conducive for regular dining . 
it 's too rich . 
it is absolutely . 
and , so , we found that while we enjoyed the evening we regretted it the next day . 
and then one of the couples moved 
and so we sort of did n't continue it , 
and i must admit that as you say when your children start taking up your time , then you do n't have as much time for regular entertaining , 
but when we entertain i usually try to find something that will be kind of good for everybody 
and that sometimes means you ca n't do gourmet , because depending on who your guests are . 
that 's true . 
and we have a gourmet friend that ca n't stand fish 
one of my friends does n't eat any cheese at all . 
so that 's a real problem because so many dishes require cheese . 
i take that back . 
she ca n't eat some cream cheese . 
but that really limits , 
so we try to keep all that in mind , 
i guess i have recipes 
but that 's basically what we do is the gourmet , 
so they would be pretty elaborate . 
but it 's fun . 
it took us four days to cook a stock and three days to make this stuff , 
and you get all prepared 
but you 're right . 
it 's very , very rich 
because it 's quite a treat 
it really is . 
sounds wonderful . 
but you like food 
and i just love the community of food . 
i just , think it 's neat . 
i do too . 
i just love sharing meals and whatever you can do to do that . 
i do n't think you have to be more than hamburgers and hot dogs out , in the backyard the coleslaw and potato salad . 
my daughter is graduating sunday 
and so we 're having , a few people in sunday afternoon . 
and i did a cop out on to it 
i 'm buying cold cuts . 
i have to , make a cake 
what are you providing ? 
and i have to make hors d'oeuvres 
and i have to make dessert 
so , i figured for the main thing it 's going to be sandwiches . 
there you go . 
so i 'm buying the little tiny rolls and so on . 
but i ca n't do it working full-time 
and , it 's just too much . 
i know . 
we 're all not built like martha stewart . 
those people that try to do everything . 
would n't that be nice ? . 
shot a video of the whole thing , 
i do n't know . 
but it 's really kind of a neat thing . 
i get a kick out of it . 
i really do . 
everything , all parts of the food , 
i love to make things from scratch making breads 
and people really pretty much appreciate it . 
they do . 
it 's very difficult to purchase items that are as good as what you can make yourself . 
i think so . 
or if you do buy it , it 's extremely expensive . 
in fact i just got back from a shopping trip to purchase the cold cuts 
and i bought turkey and pastrami and barbecued ham at an amish market near here . 
and i 've never been there before . and found that there 's individual vendors 
and the foods are wonderful . 
and one of the , vendors had cakes . all sorts of wonderful cakes . fresh strawberry cheesecake and so on . 
and it 's thirteen fifty for a whole strawberry cheesecake . which is really not such a bad price . 
i decided i just could n't quite make myself buy it because i do make cheesecake 
there you go . 
but i was very tempted because it looked wonderful , 
and they had black forest cherry cake and all those things . 
but those are homemade . 
they are not commercial bakery made . 
and in that they are made in their homes 
so it 's kind of interesting , 
it 's out there if you want to pay the price 
it is . 
we have bakeries around here that you just gain weight going by the door 
just like that . 
just smelling the air . 
but i do n't know 
i guess some of the best things i 've ever had some of them were just hors d'oeuvres . 
doing little hors d'oeuvre things that , i have a kick making that . 
i get off on strange little details of food , i guess . 
but we have so much going on here because this is dallas , 
this is the southwest , 
this is chips and picante sauce and anything hot . 
you can always make it hotter , and lots of stuff like that , 
so . that 's a really good party time , eating all that hot food 
and they just love it down here . 
we like hot food too , 
all the stuff that goes with that , 
you do n't sound like you 're from texas originally though . 
i 'm not . 
thank you for noticing . 
i 'm from chicago . 
i thought , that there was a slight difference in accent . 
and how , i got to texas by way , of virginia and everything is a long story . 
i 'll bet . 
do you have a favorite hors d'oeuvre recipe that 's easy 
in fact , it just came to mind , 
tell me about china cry . 
china cry was basically the true story written by this lady who was a native chinese who was raised by christian parents . 
and her time frame was prior to the nineteen forty-nine revolution . 
i see . 
although she , herself , had never really accepted jesus or gone through any of the other christian portions of the faith , repentance , baptisms , et cetera , et cetera . she had always felt a very strong leaning in this direction . 
and whenever the cultural revolution of nineteen forty-nine occurred and most churches were either banned or all the clergy and so forth were killed or imprisoned and the property confiscated , she was safe because she had not officially joined the christian movement . 
her dad was a doctor 
and he was rather well to do in the old regime 
and the communist chinese did n't like this at all . 
the bourgeoisie was definitely out of style , then . 
everybody was back to a commonality of one . 
they were starting to accuse her of , crimes and atrocities before the revolution and had her write her own story over and over and over . 
and the major point of the movie was that she had married this chinese fellow and was with child when they started this mass court . 
i think i 'm leaving out a portion . 
she went through college and graduated very high up in her class and had gotten a job as an instructor 
and they were starting to have her teach history for the soldiers . when they decided that she needed to start recanting of all of her pre regime crimes as it were . 
being a child . 
they kept on and on at her , 
and in the meantime , she and her husband were expecting their own child . 
and the people kept harassing her over a period of months 
and finally they carried her out into the courtyard either really to shoot her or to go through the motions of shooting her or executing her by firing squad . 
and the lord just said no , 
she 's one of mine , 
she is not going to die 
and the soldiers were blinded when they shot . 
and her life was spared . 
and this frightened the commandant 
and so he called this kind of stuff off and just put her in the labor camp . 
and , course , here 's this woman who is heavy with child dragging rocks around . 
and her husband had escaped to hong kong , 
and then she put in to go see him . 
and over time she finally , through her perseverance and writing enough letters to enough different people embarrassed enough of the middle bureaucracy that they finally let her go . 
and , of course , she had to walk . 
they stripped her of everything , practically besides the clothes on her back . 
so she went across the border to her husband and other child that they 'd already had to freedom . 
and they knew that she was n't going to come back , 
but she did , years later when the liberalization of china happened , 
and she was not persecuted or anything else like that . 
. interesting story . 
it was . 
very moving , too . 
i do n't even remember seeing that advertised 
and it was probably here and gone fairly quickly . 
it was within ninety days . 
. that recent . 
it was advertised over a period of about ninety days . 
i see what you mean . 
they did n't have it in too awfully many movie houses , 
it had large press release . 
i guess what i saw most recently was sort of light by comparison . 
my husband and i had this great desire to go see a comedy 
and , we ended up going to see green card . 
green card ? 
green card . 
and he chose it 
and he 's been a star in france and a wonderful actor who we 've enjoyed for years , 
but he 's never made an american film . 
this was his american film debut 
i see , 
and he speaks very broken english . 
and basically he played a frenchman who married an american girl in a marriage of convenience so that he could get his green card , which is what an alien needs to work in this country . 
and because she could claim she was married , she could get an apartment or a condominium in a very exclusive building in new york that had an outside garden , which is very unusual there . 
so she was a horticulturist , 
and that was sort of her dream . 
i see , 
of course they got married 
and they never saw each other again . 
except fate through them together 
and the immigration and naturalization service started investigating . 
so they had to get back together and get their stories straight , 
and she was a very svelte , sophisticated urban new yorker 
and he was a poor frenchman who had grown up on the streets and sort of pulled himself up by his bootstraps and claimed to be a composer , 
but there was no proof whatsoever that he really was . 
he 'd been working in a restaurant when they met . 
and they had to learn all about each other basically in a weekend . 
just then . 
you knew what was going to happen , of course . that they would fall in love . 
they fell into like , at any rate 
and when they went to the query or inquisition or whatever they did perfectly 
and then he said something , because his english was so poor for the most part , 
he was so proud of himself for giving all the correct answers that on the last one he said , i never remember that answer 
and that clued the investigator that he had memorized a series of answers . 
everyone thinks taxes are too high i 'm sure . 
but i think we do get quite a good value for the tax dollars we spend in most cases . 
what do you think ? 
i think so . 
i think i 'm , a little out of the ordinary in that i think i 'm more worried about the national deficit than , a lot of other people are and think that we need to either raise our taxes or cutback on something 
and i do n't know what to cutback on to get that settled . 
at this stage it 's hard , to tell . 
and , i know i 'm real , out of it in terms of taxes 
so i think that we really ought to seriously consider what an income tax might do for texas 
at this stage i think we 've taxed property almost to the limit because the property taxes on the homes have reached the point that it 's precluding people from being able to own a home because of the cost of the taxes on them . 
i think so . 
i know 
i live in richardson 
and it 's up over two thousand dollars a year for taxes on my house . 
but now we 're getting public services , the schools , the hospitals 
and if it were n't for the taxes we 're putting in there look what the schools could cost you . 
when we moved to richardson , one of the reasons we chose it was for the schools . 
then again the community college system here is excellent for the dollar spent , 
and the public , colleges also , the tuition has got to be among the lowest in the country . 
i do n't know which one it is down there down there that are proposing doubling the tuition . 
if you double the tuition , it would still be considerably less than the public school tuition in most other states . 
i think that 's right . 
that would provide possibly some relief there to utilize some of the property taxes for other things . 
the so-called sin taxes on liquor and the cigarettes and such as that generate a considerable amount , 
but eventually i think you may tax people out of smoking even . 
i do n't know about that , 
i quit ten years ago 
so i could n't afford to start again . 
i see . 
that would be true . 
that would be true . 
i know my children would give up eating before they gave up their cigarettes i think . 
but all the various taxing authorities that come through , i think the one tax i resent the most though is the additional sales tax for dart which is probably never going to be in existence in my lifetime . 
and even if it , is n't going to provide you with any services in that it 's not doing to provide a route from your home to a business , for instance . 
this is a thing 
i think it 's like back east . 
you had to start your public transportation when you started your cities . 
you ca n't come in afterward and really be successful or economical at it . 
if we had been like a chicago or a new york city or philadelphia or someone like that , and had a public transportation system starting in the horse and buggy days and when land was cheap and construction costs were cheap , you could afford it . 
but now , digging tunnels under central expressway and things like that becomes cost prohibitive . 
and the other thing is that when the public transportation is established that early on then the business and residential patterns develop to take advantage of that . 
whereas in dallas here those patterns were well established before we really tried to do the dart . 
to try to provide efficient transportation from everywhere around the metroplex to , both those centers of business plus everything else that 's scattered around here and there as opposed to having a concentrated business area like new york does , 
just take in chicago where the people depend on the public transportation system to get them everywhere . 
new york 
and some , people do n't even own a car and know how to drive a car . 
someone made the analogy with texans as being like the old cowboys and their horse . 
an old cowboy would jump on his horse to go across the street . 
most texans will jump in their car to drive across the street . 
and i 'm just as guilty as anyone else . 
i drive to work every day by myself without , even any thought of car pooling . 
and most people are that way . because they 're used to not having public transportation . 
so , but here again i think i resented where they were collecting the sales tax for five years before they turned a spade of dirt . and doing all these studies and the things 
we saw about them traveling to san francisco to see whether they wanted or twelve foot wide cars or something . 
i felt that was a little wasteful use of the tax dollars that we were paying . 
a little bit much . 
that 's about all i can say at this time . 
i think so , 
i think that will probably do it , 
it 's been real nice talking with you . 
good enough . 
so what movies have you seen lately ? 
lately i 've seen soap dish . 
and that was a lot of fun . 
it was kind of a silly little film about soap operas and things . 
that 's something i want to see , 
that 's on my list to see . 
it was okay . 
it was not a wonderful film 
but it was cute but not the biggest laugh i 've seen . 
i saw thelma and louise . a couple of days ago , and really liked that . 
did you ? 
actually i saw it twice because i liked it so much . 
that 's also on my list . 
and it 's really disturbing but a good movie . 
a disturbing movie , 
how do you mean ? 
let 's see . 
it 's different , 
it 's an shoot 'em up kind of film . 
but it 's with women in it instead of men 
so that 's kind of a twist on the normal thing . 
a switcheroo , 
you would applaud bruce willis in die hard if he was doing this 
but you might not be so encouraging , of susan sarandon and then gena davis when they do it . 
so , that was kind of interesting . 
but i really enjoyed it . 
because that just reminds me of back in school and the girlfriends just taking off for a day or something . just getting in trouble and probably not that much trouble 
that 's kind of what it was . 
they had started out with that , 
then they got into lots of trouble . 
before we found the shopping malls that 's what we did . 
i 'll have to keep that on my list then . 
i also saw that madonna movie . 
it 's truth or dare 
and that was pretty scandalous . 
scandalous ? 
madonna she 's pretty trashy . 
i can imagine . 
and so it was interesting . 
i guess she does it for the social value of showing you what trash is , 
they talked about her , 
it was a film of her concert tour she had taken all around the world . 
and they were at the vatican city and would n't let her perform in rome , 
and she , kept saying that her show was not garbage . 
it had a social message to it 
you just had to find it . 
you had to wade through it and find it . 
we never quite believed that , 
i thought that was pushing it a little bit 
all i know about that woman is that she 's an incredible marketeer . 
she is . 
she 's rich . 
and she 's rich 
she 's smart at what she does . 
she knows how to do that . 
she knows how to twist this around , 
what did you think about dances with wolves when you saw it ? 
we 're getting back to last year . 
that 's probably the last movie i saw . dances with wolves , 
i just adored it . 
how can i tell you . 
maybe ten years ago i had read bury my heart at wounded knee 
i really liked it a lot . 
it was a real consciousness raiser , i guess . 
and i only bring up wounded knee because that was what ten years ago you read and understood about the indian population , 
and then everything went away for a couple years , 
and now it 's back again . 
and it 's sort of a popular view of what happened way back then . 
of course , no one will ever know . 
i know , 
i wondered if the tribes that they represented the tribe that was the evil tribe , if they were really as bad as it made them to be . 
who knows . 
it sort of showed two different types of tribes 
one was a warring tribe , 
and the other one was , uh , vegetarian kind of feel good tribe sort of thing , 
so there possibly were because you know you always have conflict in the world . 
nobody can get along peacefully . 
but i wonder 
because they made a big deal about how this film was such a big leap for the people who were the ancestors of this indian tribe 
and that was so wonderful that they done that 
and i wonder if they were offended by the film , 
i see . 
you did n't , hear any press about that . 
i thought it was a very interesting movie . 
i think so . 
i have come to respect a little bit more what went on here , 
but who knows how it 's supposed to all end . 
on the broad scope it had a much bigger meaning to me about just the meaning of the freedom of this country and what that really meant . 
and that was taking over somebody else 's freedoms . and sort of trampling that 
so it meant something bigger i think . 
i loved the buffalo scene . 
i got a little sick of his mug on the screen every , three minutes , 
but he 's the director . 
but 
i just thought it was a really interesting , intense film . 
that 's good . 
intense i think is the word for it because three hours went by really fast . 
it was good . 
i looked at my watch only a few times , which is a good thing . 
ate a lot of popcorn . 
but it put me in a really bad mood , 
i do n't know why . 
did it really ? 
there were three of us who went . 
we were just all really grouchy when it was over . 
so we decided that may be the mark of a good film . 
it made us think . 
it made you think . 
we were grouchy . 
but there are no answers . 
i know 
and we had , nothing to do with it . 
that can make you crabby , 
we were not responsible , 
but we still felt the thick blame for , what had gone on . 
that 's true . 
they sort of candy coated the western story for many years , 
it always balances out one way or the other once you get the whole story 
have you seen any other movies ? 
because you sound like you see a lot . 
i do . 
i 'm just out of school 
do n't have a job 
so i should n't go see movies all the time . 
there you go . 
i rented a good movie called cinema paradeso which is an italian movie which is probably the best movie i 've seen ever . 
it was just , wonderful . 
it 's , uh , story about a little boy in a little italian village , 
or he works in a movie theater 
and it helps the projectionist . 
there 's an old man who 's the projectionist 
and he befriends this old man , 
and then it just tells about their friendship that lasts through all these years . 
i thought i had to kind of get beyond that . 
reading the little words at the bottom of the screen 
but i just laughed and cried 
and , i really loved it . 
i 'll have to write that down . 
that was a great one . 
i 'll have to write that , 
did you see texasville ? 
are you into , larry mcmurtry ? 
i had n't . 
i had read the last picture show 
but that 's out on video now 
and i have n't seen it . 
but i was interested in reading texasville before i saw the movie . 
did you like it ? 
i read a lot of larry mcmurtry books 
and texasville is just like that . 
it 's very peculiar circumstances and very peculiar things that people do with each other 
do you own a p c by the way ? 
i 'm guessing you probably do . 
i do n't have one in my home here . 
my parents have one 
and they live just about three miles away , 
so we use that one . 
i see . 
and my in-laws also have one , 
and they 're almost as close . 
they 're in richardson . 
and what kinds of things do you use it for when you go to them ? 
usually word processing something such as forms for things 
also i have a nine year old that i 've been home schooling for the last three years . 
the one that my parents have is an apple two e . 
and i have a sister-in-law who works in the fort worth school district . 
and so she got me copies of several of the apple programs for school programs , 
and so we use those 
whenever we go over and visit grandma the kids love to play the computer game , 
so , that 's part of it . 
my husband has used the one at his folks house for mostly business things . his resume , his letter , 
he 's been applying for jobs and things , 
so that type of thing . forms for his photography business , and that kind of thing . 
i tell you 
once you get used to having them you get spoiled really quickly . 
my father had a software company , 
and they have a bunch of computers leftover from that 
and we 're hoping that they can put together something for us here that we can have the word processing , here . 
but they 're kind of older 
so i 'm not sure that we 'll be able to get too many other programs for it . 
i 'm a writer by profession 
and when i was first here in dallas or in plano i was finally able to afford a new typewriter , 
and i got an i b m selectric . 
i thought i had died and gone to heaven because , i thought , they 're so wonderful . 
i have one of those . 
then 
mine 's broke at the moment , 
ours really needs to have some work done on it 
but then my husband worked at t i 
he does n't work there anymore , 
but he got the t i professional and brought that home 
and i learned wordstar on that , 
and once that happened , there was just no way that i could ever go back to doing anything of length of the typewriter . 
i learned wordstar , 
i did some typing for my father when he had the company 
and so i learned that on there too , 
have you ever used wordperfect ? 
i have n't . 
i guess i have used it once or twice . 
it 's the one that 's on my father-in-law 's computer . 
he 's got on i b m . 
that 's probably where you 've used it . 
so that 's the program that they 're using there . 
i have that on my computer here 
and also i do some work at u t d 
and that 's what they have there 
and it was just so nice to be able just to step into the position and already know the software . 
and i do n't know from my own experience , 
wordperfect is just so much better than wordstar at least the version of wordstar that i used to have . 
it may be improved by now 
that 's what i 've heard . 
wordstar was never very intuitive to me . 
some of the commands just had nothing to do with what they did on the computer 
going forward and backward a word or up and down a line that sort of thing 
just did n't match with the kinds of keys , you were using . 
you had to , memorize it , 
but wordperfect is just a lot more intuitive in a lot of ways . 
and it does a lot of things too that if you do any kind of research or anything like that where you have to use footnotes , it is just wonderful . because it keeps track of all your footnotes . 
that 's neat . 
and if you put a footnote in the middle if you come up with some new piece of documentation and you put that in the middle of your paper and have to footnote it it just automatically changes all your footnoting numbers for you . 
how wonderful . 
i had heard that that was a better one . 
and i think about how it used to be if you were doing a paper and you had to go back and retype everything , 
and it was just awful . 
so i do n't know i think we have just become really spoiled . 
but i think , it 's a nice kind of way to be spoiled . 
i agree . 
clock , 
although i think we 've probably been talking at least ten minutes 
so unless you have some other things you want to talk about as having to do with p c -s . 
not too much . 
what kind of things do you write ? 
i was a technical writer for many years , 
and my husband and i actually met in a computer company . 
i was a tech writer 
and he was an engineer . 
so i did tech writing for a number of years . 
go talk to daddy about it . 
excuse me . 
go on and talk to daddy about it . 
tell daddy i unplugged it for you . 
but you do n't need to drag it down the hall . 
got a problem ? 
daddy came home and found her playing with the telephone that i had unplugged . 
. trying to figure out what all that was about ? . 
that was the majority of my writing 
although i have also done free lance magazine writing and some educational writing . 
and for a while i had a partnership in an advertising agency with another woman who is an artist . 
so i did some advertising and p r 
actually i 'm not working anymore . 
i 'm a graduate student 
so i 'm doing a lot of writing 
i 've done a lot of different kinds , 
but i just know right now that i could n't have put out half of what i did 
so that 's been really great . 
so i 'm real spoiled . 
i 'm anxious some day to have one here . 
and they just talked the other day about setting something up again 
so hopefully pretty soon we 'll at least have the word processing . 
my nine year old i 've decided to teach her how to type using the computer , 
that 's great . 
those are skills that she certainly is going to need early on 
and it seems like it 's getting earlier and earlier with the children . 
that 's right . 
so i think that that would be a real , advantage to her to have that and do it early , 
we 've been , writing a story together . 
and i wanted her to put it into the computer , and then print it out and , make a book with it . 
and so i decided if she 's going to do that , it would be a whole lot easier if she could type . 
so we 'll slowly learn just to type here and then put the story in . 
that 's great . 
that 's a skill that she can use for the rest of her life , 
so . might as well start now ? . 
i agree . 
nola i have enjoyed talking with you thoroughly . 
this is really going to be fun i think , 
and my husband is a ham radio operator 
do you have children ? 
i have a daughter . 
do you . 
how old is she ? 
she 's only about a little less than two years old . 
i guess you have not reached the stage where you need to promote a college or anything . 
i 've got one that 's seven and one that 's three , 
so we started saving , 
but that 's all . 
are you planning to encourage your children to go to a particular school ? 
no particular school . 
that you are going to let them make . 
help them make in terms of what they are wanting to do . 
that 's a big influence , i think 
and not only what you can afford , but what 's going to be best for them in terms of what their career goals are . 
so you need to go to a school that handles whatever it is you want to do . 
where did you go to school ? 
university of mississippi . 
it was within the state . 
but it was not necessarily local , 
what 's the criterion for choosing to go there ? 
at the time , i was thinking of going pre med 
and in the state they had the best pre med curriculum for the state institutions . 
it was choice between there and a private college that was a bit more expensive . 
at the time , we really could not afford it 
so i ended up going there although it was quite a drive away for me . 
i enjoyed it . 
did you commute everyday then 
it was a six hour drive . 
when you said it was quite a way away , i did not know that meant you had to drive an hour 
it was like another world . 
did not get home that often , 
and at that age it 's kind of difficult sometimes . 
especially , if you have not been away a lot . 
did you go there straight out of high school ? 
i did not get my degree until later on , 
so i just finished mine a couple of years ago . 
and i guess when you have to do it that way , it makes your choices a lot easier 
that 's true . 
that 's like when i went on to get my master 's it was where i was at the time . 
i was not going to try to pick and go somewhere else because i was pretty much settled 
and i was trying to work . 
so when you are first going to school you kind of have the luxury of being able to have some latitude in choosing the place to go . 
which group do you work in in t i ? 
the computer science center . 
where is that at ? 
north building . 
i see . 
how long do you work for t i ? 
about three years . 
did you work somewhere else , 
sounds like you got your master 's before here 
actually i came straight from school to here . 
i see . 
cause this was the first real job after getting my degree . 
after my master 's . 
i see . 
my undergraduate degree was not in what my master 's was . 
i see . 
so i made a career change basically . 
i see . 
let 's see 
there 's a lot of pluses and minuses for different schools just like you said . 
depending on what they want to specialize in and what you can afford , different things like that , 
so i have not really made up my mind whether to encourage them to go different places 
i like the school where i went . 
and i would not hesitate at all to encourage her to go there if she wanted to . 
or the school where i got my master 's at , which was a different school . 
and i liked it almost as well . 
but you know , that , i 'm not going to hold them to that just because i went there . 
if they want to , that 's fine , 
but otherwise not . although i would get quite a break on tuition . 
because you went there . 
because they allow for tuition break for out of state students who children of alumnae . 
i did n't know that . 
certain schools do it . 
this school does . 
i was involved in some alumnae recruiting here in town last year . 
and it was kind of fun , because you are trying to get people interested in your school . 
this was a college night at a high school in richardson . 
and there were a bunch of kids and a bunch of schools . 
there were a hundred schools , probably there all competing for the same kids . 
it 's kind of interesting to talk up your , school 
your own school , 
and , i was surprised by the number of kids that came by and had heard of our school . and were interested in it . 
situations like that , you do n't realize until you start thinking about it , the kinds of advantages you school may have over others . 
and so , i was real , real pleased with that . 
that worked out so well . 
did you drum up any interest then 
or that 's good . 
i think so . 
i do n't know offhand 
but it seemed like there were quite a few kids that were definitely interested in going there . 
so , there was one mother who came by right , even , before we started , who obviously was very interested in getting her daughter in or having gotten her daughter in or something 
and she was wanting some more information . 
but her daughter was , a baton twirler or something 
and she was , letting us know how good her daughter was . 
she had won several different twirling awards , and all this , 
and she had these business cards she was passing out 
and it was quite a production . 
i think some parents go a little bit overboard . 
it sounds like it . 
what was one of the latest ones that you 've seen , actually ? 
i think we rented pretty woman a couple months ago . 
the last two years , i have done more theater movie going than i have actually watched videos at home . 
i 've become available to come and go more often , 
so i said `` it 's worth it , 
i 'll just go at the matinee hour 
and i can see what i please . '' 
it 's no more costly than renting one . 
i went about two or three weeks ago and saw f x two 
and that is a really good movie , if you like special effects , 
kind of gory and lots of action . 
i have not done that one , 
i do n't know if i have even heard of that one . 
do you know that i do n't follow performers , 
i do n't follow actors . 
some i know , 
some i do n't . 
but the one that played in it that i liked best was the one who was in the one about the old people . 
cocoon ? 
cocoon , 
he was a blond haired , heavyset alien in cocoon . 
i do n't know what his name is . 
i think i know who you are talking about though . 
at any rate , i also saw not long ago once around . 
that was with richard dreyfuss . 
and , that one was just a very poignant story , 
it had people , 
a lot of people said it was a really funny movie , 
but it was a poignant humor 
and it was like steel magnolias . 
the characters played very well off one another . 
and there was humor involved , 
but the story was a very dramatic story , 
and i enjoyed it very much . 
what are some others that you have seen lately ? 
i 'm trying to think , 
just the other night on h b o we watched the hunt for red october , again 
that 's one i can watch , over and over and over again . 
i was going to read while it was on , 
but then when it started , i just could n't read . 
that was a really good movie . 
it sure was . 
and the second time you see it , you understand more subtleties in it . 
there are a number of good movies like that . 
there 's quite a few movies out now that i would like to go see . 
my husband , is not a real big movie goer , 
and i guess , more than anything , that is why we do n't go . 
plus , by the time you get a baby-sitter , and then pay to go to the movies it just gets pretty expensive . 
you do n't work ? 
i stay at home . 
you are going to have to find a mother 's day out and have him call in sick one day . 
go during the day , 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
there 's nothing wrong with that . 
go in the early hours , 
it 's a matinee , 
it 's not crowded 
and the price is as reasonable as renting a video . 
and that 's the way i do it 
and i go quite frequently . 
if you are going to be planning on doing that , 
i was warlock too , which is supposed to be the story of a witch hunt that is magically shot into the present time . 
and , the first five minutes or ten minutes of the movie i was very well persuaded to walk out . very well persuaded , 
there was more gore than i was interested in seeing . 
but , as the movie settles down to a comfortable action i ca n't . 
but the action was comfortable 
and , of course , i enjoyed those good guy , bad guy type conflicts things . 
so , i enjoyed that movie , after the first few minutes of gore . 
and there were some others , 
but they were done a little more tastefully . 
but in the first scene , the warlock chopped off a guy 's finger because he wanted the ring and then bit his tongue out and spit it off in the omelet 
and i could not handle that . 
i said `` i 'm glad i have not had dinner '' . 
then i saw awakening , 
that 's a wonderful , wonderful job by robin williams and peter de niro . 
robert de niro ? 
robert de niro , 
what did i say , peter ? 
i think you said peter . 
i said robert de niro . 
and , he has done a really good job of characterizing the disabled person . 
and , of course , robin williams always just has an air about him that you ca n't help but enjoy what he is doing . 
even when he 's sad you . 
and then there 's a couple or three that i would like to go see before they go into videos . 
i guess , i can wait another month 
and they will be videos . 
one is silence of the lambs . 
i 've heard a lot about that one . 
they say if you really want some suspense , that 's the one to see . 
and , i understand that 's a sequel to an earlier movie that showed about two weeks ago on television . 
i think i read about that too . 
and then thelma and louise , 
i think it 's time we had a lady abuse the guys movie . 
it 's about time for one of those . 
i want to go see that . 
and i 'm going to try to get in dances with wolves . 
i 've heard that is wonderful . 
i 've heard it 's wonderful too , 
but it 's just that they are both very long movies , 
and the matinee starts before i can get away from work . 
and , after that i get involved in other things and do n't want to go back . 
we , rented the other one , 
i was trying to think of the other one that we had rented lately , 
was presumed innocent , with harrison ford , 
i guess he 's in there . 
and , i thought that was really good . 
i saw that 
and i can not remember too much about it . 
not defense , 
he was a prosecu- , -cuter . 
and there was a murder of one of the women that was in the d a - 's office . 
and then he ended up being accused of it . 
that 's right , 
i remember now . 
i remember . 
so it really kind of had a turn at the end , when you found out who it was . 
i 've had a hard time enjoying harrison ford in anything since the indiana jones movies . 
i think he ought to stay indiana jones . 
i realize that he would like his career to develop , 
but i do n't want to see him in other things . 
but i tell you , 
sean connery in the hunt for red october , i never did care for him in the james bond movies . 
i do n't know 
i was never into those movies , either . 
i did n't care for the type of movie , 
but he was always slick , and greasy , and seemed to be conceited and had more women than he needed 
and i did n't like him . 
but , he has really developed into a marvelous character actor as he has come older . 
i thought he looked real good with a beard , too . 
he does 
i do n't know , 
i think that beard gives him a look that he is always grinning , whether he is or not . 
and he has that merry look about his eyes that looks like he stays in mischief all time . 
and , i enjoy those , 
and i enjoy some of the michael j . fox movies . 
i did n't care too much for the last one either . 
it just was not enough to it . 
what was the last one ? 
i 'm trying to think . 
back to the future then was the last one . 
it was called hard way , where he was an actor , trying to portray a policeman . 
trying to mumblex . 
there you go . 
first question , 
do you own your house ? 
we try . 
it 's a big mortgage in the sky 
and someday , maybe , we might even own it , 
but for all practical purposes , i guess we hold the mortgage . 
our name is on the till , 
so that implies ownership . 
no one else has offered to pay for it . 
that 's right . 
i would not object if anybody did . 
really they could move right into the spare room . 
we have had this one for five years now . 
before that we lived in garland probably about four blocks away . 
liked the area , chose to stay inside of spring park . 
i do n't know if you have been up here , 
but it is a residential homeowners , association . 
so , there 's a lot of activities , a lot of pluses and common land . 
but we thought we were buying at the bottom of the market , 
it could not possibly have gone any lower 
and so we were wrong . 
five years ago . 
it bottom out about a year later . 
just recently , i would say , 
i would give it two years back , when it was bottomed out . 
oddly enough , two years , 
but , maybe not in your area , 
it was just different areas , 
not in , this area . 
that 's a really nice area . 
besides , it 's not richardson . is it ? 
it 's still considered garland . 
it 's richardson . 
it 's , richardson 
and , hold on a second . 
paul , i can hear you perfectly , perfectly well , 
i do n't want to hear you . 
you are being rude . 
whatever you ask or scream when i 'm on the phone , the answer is no . 
do you understand ? 
how does that sound ? 
there you go . 
write that one down . 
there i go . 
it sounded good to me . 
i hate to say how long that will last too . 
this area up here is all custom homes , 
i do n't think that many by the builder that built this house . 
and , we were not the first owners , 
i think we are the third owners . 
it was built by the architect for himself , who never moved into it . who sold it to a couple who had no idea that homes ever needed upkeep . 
caulking windows was a great mystery to them . 
so , they just watched the water pour in on the carpet . 
but , it 's a sharif myneer homes , if that means anything , 
it did not really mean anything to me except , i liked it . 
i , kept thinking of omar sharif every time i saw that name somewhere , 
he builds eight hundred thousand dollar houses now . 
but , the houses here in this class of housing never dropped below two hundred . 
but , still i know that this one was built for two ninety nine , which is nowhere near what we paid for it . 
and i think somebody told me it 's also on a creek side lot , heavily wooded off the golf course . 
and the guy around the corner is being transferred 
so he said he did comparables that it 's about eighty dollars , 
let 's see what , 
i do n't remember if he said it was sixty dollars a square foot , off the creek and eighty on the creek , or , if it was eighty and a hundred . 
probably eighty . 
i think it was sixty , eighty . 
sixty , eighty . 
i think . 
because , i know our little house over here stuck in the middle of the subdivision is fifty five , 
so , i think the high end is definitely somewhere there . 
try and think if it was a hundred dollars a square foot . 
it could not be , 
because this house has around thirty four hundred square feet , 
and it would never sell for three hundred forty thousand dollars . 
just never . 
maybe that 's pretty close to what it would have sold for brand new , 
or that 's pretty much what it was built for . 
it 's got an awful lot of nice things in it 
but i think it 's going to be a long time , if ever , when nice things and really quality construction and all the other additional amenities are really desirable . 
it seems like people go for square footage only now 
and . have you been back to the perry homes , back here ? 
the ones that look like brick houses ? 
the one that looks like monopoly apartments . 
i think those are awful . 
i 'm sorry , 
i just see him as trying to squish as much house into the space as possible . 
they are huge when you are inside them . 
they are very spacious . 
they are , 
i was in one today . 
it was forty two hundred square feet . 
because there 's just the two of us 
and the two cats can yell at each other from one end to the other and be heard . 
when you have kids , you like to be able to , send them some place where they can yell and you wo n't hear them . 
that 's true . 
but , i have been watching these houses go up 
somebody was telling me , 
i know somebody who lives back there , 
i have always questioned the quality of construction 
and i do n't think they exceed more than twelve nails per house . 
when you watch them go up , you are just amazed that they do not fall over . 
and it takes them something like , thirty days to complete a house . 
that 's amazing . 
right now , in fact , even as we speak , we are having a deck put on in back , 
and these guys are phenomenal . 
they are doing such a terrific job back there , 
you pay for it too , 
but it 's really worth it . 
they are putting in a deck , a redwood deck , 
they are doing such a fine , fine job . 
we have got three different levels of decking , because , this lot slopes way back down 
i 'm really excited about it , 
and the house is built around the trees . 
so , it 's real , real shady . 
but , that 's one of the few things that really immediately pays back on return . 
when the people from m c i come down 
and they are used to the virginia area , metropolitan d c . 
they come down here 
looks like the george town brownstone . 
and the idea of ever owning anything that has four thousand square feet in it , for less than two hundred twenty thousand dollars , which is probably about what their equity is , that they got out of selling their house . 
must be a dream . 
because those things are selling like hot cakes . 
but , one of the people that was living back there was telling me that his air conditioning bill , per month , last summer was in excess of five hundred dollars a month . 
and i thought , 
and he was talking about how you keep up with the utilities here . 
and i was thinking , i know why your god damn bill is so high , 
he has no insulation , probably . 
it 's because there 's no insulation in those things . 
what a trap . . 
they show very well unless you have lived in a lot of houses around the area , or looked at a lot of houses around here . 
and you ask the right questions and can research , 
and i think that makes a big difference . 
but , i like this area 
i do too . 
i think if we had to sell now , we could come close to breaking even . 
but , still it 's worth it for the area and for the school and things like that . 
the topic is selecting care for the elderly . 
and i do n't have elderly parents , yet 
what about yourself ? 
my parents are both in their seventies . 
my mother and stepfather , and my father and stepmother are all in their seventies . 
and , my father and stepmother are not in very good health . 
it is . 
are they living independently , right now ? 
they are . 
they are . 
have you looked at any homes for them or talked to them about that ? 
not for them , 
my mother and stepfather have , set up an arrangement where they have a large home and two of my sisters and their families , one of them 's husband and then all the children are living in this home . 
it 's got a lot of bedrooms and bathrooms 
and , they all share the same kitchen and dining room and den and kitchen . 
and , my stepfather bought this thinking of a time when one or the other of them might need care 
and they felt like that would be their alternative to a nursing home . 
that sounds the ultimate . 
unless they were so ill that they needed nursing care that could not be given in the home . 
even at that point , most care can be given in the home . 
that sound like just an excellent solution . 
you must feel real good about that . 
i felt good about it because that 's my personal feeling also . 
i read a lot 
and then i know people then have visited nursing homes and have had great , grandparents in the nursing homes 
and it was not a happy situation for any of them . 
and , we have a very active nursing home here in plano that has activities going all the time 
even the people that are wheelchair bound and really are incapacitated . go and participate in olympics 
and they make their crafts and sell them at a big fair that 's held annually at a big mall here . 
so there are a lot of activities going on all the time 
and this is a nursing home , 
it 's not a senior citizens home . 
they need , the nursing care , 
but it 's a very expensive solution . 
i think we just listen to , the fact that there are good solutions both inside and outside of nursing homes . 
it 's just a matter of finding , a good home . 
and then , of course , there is always the problem of being able to afford either of those solutions . 
and that is what is scary , 
and i also feel that that 's where some of the bad images of nursing homes come from . is when people have to put people in a nursing homes 
and they really can not afford the best . 
and that 's right , 
i took my husband one night to an emergency room when he was in an emergency situation 
and they brought in a very elderly man from a nursing home who had , apparently inhaled some chicken he was eating . 
and he apparently had not been in the home too long , just a week or so , 
but when the family came in to see him , they had not been made aware , 
i was in the room when the emergency technicians brought him in from the ambulance 
and i overheard their conversation . 
and when the family walked in , his wife and daughter and son-in-law , they were not even aware of what had happened . 
so , i told them he strangled on some chicken 
what a shame , 
they put him in the home so that he could be cared for 
and then they could have done that well at home . 
and then she was upset , 
he had on two different shoes , one of which was not even his . 
he had on a pair , of slacks , 
and the wife said `` these are not his slacks '' 
and she said `` i just took two pair over yesterday for him that were clean . '' 
you hear these stories , all the time . 
this was just something that i witnessed to . 
and , at no point did anybody from the nursing home come in . 
and we were there in the same room with the man for a half hour . 
they revived the man and cleared out his airway and so forth , 
just by looking at him and the way he acted , you could tell he was in need of nursing home care , 
but the family were all talking about putting him in another home . 
they said he will not go back to that one . 
i 'm glad they have a solution . 
to do that , 
i know . 
i would hate to be in a position where that was all i could afford 
and there was no choice . 
my ex-husband 's grandmother had been in a nursing home now for seven , eight years , 
and , it 's just her condition deteriorated instantly upon getting into that home . 
the situation is so sad because it just takes all the dignity away from people who have been independent all their lives . 
this was a really neat vital woman 
and you get in a nursing home 
and the first thing that happens you have to share your whole living space , with someone that you have never known before in your life . 
and i do not know what the answer is , 
but i do know that there are some wonderful places out there 
a lot of it goes down to just money . and family support , 
that 's right . 
if you have family that you can live with . 
visits everyday . 
i think the way of selecting a nursing home would be similar to the way you would select child care . 
you would do your research 
and you would go visit . 
visit , 
and hopefully , they would have it so that you could go there anytime . 
suspicious . 
i remember my grandmother many years ago when she was in a nursing home before she died 
and i guess there was not a name for what she had at that time , 
but i guess alzheimer 's would come as close as anything , 
she really was not aware of what she was doing . 
and i can remember she had several strokes 
and the nursing home was right next to a hospital 
and they would rush her to the hospital and revive her and just bring her back to the nursing home in a couple of days . 
and it was just like keeping something . 
ed . 
books , 
actually i am reading a couple of different books , 
one is , a story , 
it is not a story , 
it is a collection of memos , supposedly written by howard hughes , 
it came out a couple of years ago 
and i have just now gotten around to reading it . 
i have had it a couple years , 
who wrote that ? 
i do not remember the man 's name , 
he used to be a reporter for the new york times , or the washington post , one of the two , 
and he supposedly was contacted by this guy who had these memos he wanted to sell , 
and they were ones that had supposedly been stolen from the corporate headquarters in los angeles . 
on romain drive or romain street or something , there in los angeles , they had a big warehouse kind of thing , which had offices 
and it was sort of nondescript for the size of the company 
which , inside was basically a store house of a bunch of stuff he collected , 
he was a great collector of everything , 
he did not throw anything away 
i see . 
he had some accomplices that were kind of suspect , 
and they broke in one night and found a bunch of memos that were supposedly from hughes to his main assistant back in the fifties and in the sixties , up until his death . 
that is interesting . 
it 's pretty interesting work 
that is an intriguing type of book to be reading and trying to keep up on things like that . 
you have to plod through it 
and it does not have a real story , or any plot , 
you just kind of have to read and understand what is going on . 
and , they have not made a movie of the week of it yet . 
i have not seen it . 
but it is real interesting , 
i also 
it 's another old book that i happen to have . 
i am sort of rereading it . 
it 's a book about the bermuda triangle , 
but it 's a real good book that a guy wrote who was a research librarian , 
he wrote sort of debunking many of the stories about the bermuda triangle , 
he was thinking many of the myths of the triangle actually , could be explained , 
explained 
and the reason i picked it back up was in light of when they found the airplanes in the atlantic , thinking they were flight nineteen . 
and i do n't know if you are familiar with that at all 
flight nineteen was a collection of a flight of five navy adventures at the end of world war two . right after world war two , 
and they were lost 
supposedly scooped up by the triangle . 
they were . 
he wrote this book back in the seventies , 
and even then he had a very good case for the fact they probably just got lost and they ditched in the water . 
and it 's probably real close to what everyone is thinking , now that , they just got turned around and could not find their way back . 
on that same topic , have you ever read anything about the amelia earhart story , whatever happened with her ? 
i have not . 
i am sure there is something out there , 
i would like to , too , 
i thought she was a prisoner of war or something for like ten years . 
whatever , 
this is one aspect of it . 
of course it is so weird , 
cause no one will ever really know , 
but it 's entertaining 
and it makes you think about things . 
that is for sure . 
that is pretty much for right now , 
that is , what i have been reading . 
i kind of like to read different stuff 
and i like to read a novel every now and then , 
but i am trying to get away from just reading novels all the time . 
usually , if i find a good book , i will sit for two days until it is finished . if it 's that good , 
and i think the last one i read like that was scott thurow 's 
and that was presumed innocent . 
and i just really , really liked the way he writes . 
it 's just , incredible . 
i read that , too . 
i got it right , after it came out . 
he was an assistant district attorney in chicago while he was writing the book , 
and my sister-in-law lives in chicago , 
and before it actually got big , she sent me this book saying , you might like this , 
this guy is from here . 
and i read it and really liked it 
that is when it really got big . 
that was good , i think . 
and the other book was in the last year 
and i think i did read tom wolfe and vanity , 
bonfire of the vanity , 
i have not read that , although , i have heard it is pretty good . 
that was really , really good , 
the movie was nothing compared to the book . 
that is what i have heard . 
i saw the movie , 
because tom wolfe is so perceptive , when it comes to pinpointing society 's ills and , things like that and just nailing people to the wall and exposing things 
and so , it was a much more intense book than the sort of flimflam that they cast off in the movie . 
i know . 
and we are not talking about that , 
but i like to read gardening books and things like that . just to tell me what to do with my garden 
i do computer work 
and so i have a lot of those . 
so , i spend a lot of time looking through those , not necessarily reading them but , looking through them . 
but i 'm interested in a lot of that , 
but i have got a lot of books that i intend to read , 
but i have not been able to yet for one reason or another . 
what is a book on your list , 
i have a list too 
and i have never gotten to it . 
i do not really have a list , 
cause i just have all the books out , 
i have book shelves 
and i have them all out 
and usually when i am through with one , i will go in and look through , 
i have one now 
and i can not remember the name of it that i got 
the sister-in-law in chicago usually for my birthday or christmas or something will send me another good book 
i have one 
and i can not remember the name of it , 
it is supposed to be a mystery . 
we 've talked a little bit about the plano school system . 
i really have been pleased with plano . 
my son is learning disabled , 
and i thank god every day that i have the resources that we have tapped into . 
is he ? 
he 's in elementary school . 
and he 's not severely learning disabled . 
he 's being helped . 
but he is being helped . 
he was in resource from second grade till fourth grade in math , 
and they recently released him from , resource , which i was thrilled , 
i really was . 
i just thought that was so neat , that they got him over that hump . 
and he 's in the herman method of reading . 
i do n't know if you 're , familiar with that . 
that 's something new to me . 
it is something new , 
and basically what they do is they start right from the beginning relearning the sounds of letters . 
i think i read about that in the paper . 
it 's wonderful . 
doctor haggard is heading that up . 
and it 's wonderful . 
he did n't have a problem with reading . 
as a matter of fact , he 's reading on level . 
the problem was his spelling . 
it 's interesting , because i 'm convinced i have the same learning disability that was ignored . 
so you learned how to solve your problems on your own . 
that 's right . 
and so it 's not an intelligence problem . 
it 's just a problem with learning . 
has he had this since kindergarten , 
or is this something , 
and then he just did n't learn the right way ? 
it 's funny . 
when he was in first grade , he had trouble with spelling , 
it 's amazing . 
you 'll say to him , spell cat , 
and he 'll say c a t , 
and then he would go to write it , 
and he would write c o t . 
and i kept saying to the teacher , something is wrong here . 
something is wrong here . 
you 're right . 
and the teacher kept saying , he has a may birthday . 
he 's just immature . 
second grade it was , 
these teachers as far as i 'm concerned are absolute saints , because in second grade i went up there , 
and i requested a conference because all year long they kept telling me i was crazy . 
that 's great for parents to be involved . 
i was , 
and i went up there the second week of school 
and i said something is wrong , 
and the head teacher , the team leader , was a special education major . 
how great . 
it was 
and , she had picked it up , 
so she was able to zero in . 
she had already picked it up . 
and she said we were going to call you if you had n't called us . 
we think there 's a learning disability 
and we think he needs to be tested immediately , because once the first report card comes in , they , have all these people being tested , 
and she said , i think we can get him real fast . 
and sure enough , they tested him 
and he qualified for the help , 
and it 's been great , 
and i thank god i 'm here , because i know i have a sister who has the other extreme . 
she has a child in connecticut who is extremely gifted , 
and because of the cutbacks in the economy they have nothing for her . 
and to me that 's the same thing . 
it 's like having a child who has a learning disability that 's being ignored , 
this poor gifted child is being ignored . 
but that 's something that parents are able to help the gifted child in the home more than they could help the learning disabled child . 
that 's true . 
because , that 's something you can do by just enrichment types of things in the home 
that 's true . 
but learning disability , unless you are schooled in the types of things and ways to help a child like that , then it makes it real difficult 
and this to me is the benefit i see in public schools is that , you do have government money to fund , the kinds of programs that these students need , 
and i 'm not sure that the private schools or parochial schools address that problem , 
they test kids before they take them , 
and , they do n't take them , 
and if they 're a behavior problem , they 're out . 
that 's right . 
and , this is kind of a rejection type of thing , 
i work a nine ten school , 
and we get students that come in that have been kicked out of the parochial and private schools 
and they come in 
and their attitude is , `` i 'm a bad boy , '' 
and proceed to prove it . 
so i really hate that for them . 
i , would rather they not have that attitude , 
recently i was in a discussion 
and they were comparing test scores between private schools and public schools , 
and that was one of the points that i made , is that you 're not comparing apples to apples . 
that 's right . 
i know steven probably would not be accepted because he has a learning disability into a private school . which is too bad . 
but on the other hand , i ca n't necessarily blame them , 
they are a private school 
and they , can do whatever they want . 
that 's right , 
they can be selective , 
that 's right , 
they have the ability to be selective . 
but you ca n't say then , public schools are not as good . 
if you choose the select top group out of the public schools and tested them , and then compared them to the private school group , then i think you would have a more equitable way . 
you 're right . 
and i have a problem when they compare the kids in japan or germany to the kids here . 
in , honesty , the kids in japan they have to try out to even get to which kindergarten they 're going to get into , 
in fact , they 've had cases in the past where parents have committed suicide because their child has not gotten into the top kindergarten , which means they probably wo n't get into the top elementary and high school , 
and if they do n't , when they reach a certain age , that 's the end of their schooling . 
and , they do n't ever really go on . 
it 's only their top ones that go on , like ours do . 
so that creates a problem . 
and you ca n't compare , because they go so many more hours . 
the other thing is that the priority in the family is that child 's education , and is that child . 
you see that with the foreigners that come here . 
that 's right . 
i was talking to somebody recently or read somewhere where they said that these children , they had to be the best , 
and they put off all social life , all everything . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
is that good ? 
the child is very bright , 
but on the other hand , i feel like my children , who are kind of middle of the road , are more rounded . 
better coping skills . 
i think it 's real important to have friends . 
i think it 's real important to play sports . 
i think it 's real important to be part of a team . 
and so that 's why i said , their childhood is extremely different from mine . 
we did n't do all that . 
we certainly did n't carpool and run the way i do . 
and you do n't see the parents encouraging those students to get on athletic teams or , drill teams or band , 
it 's strictly stick to the educational , 
and it 's interesting to see them as they get older , 
then that is the type of adult they are . 
do you have annual family reunions 
my mother 's side of the family was quite large at one time , 
and they for as long as i can remember , have had a yearly reunion , 
back early on they used to rotate them to different people 's houses , in the family . 
all local . 
were they all in dallas ? 
i am actually from mississippi , 
it was around there generally . 
that 's where the family grew . 
just from city to city then . 
and it was not only in mississippi , in some other places , as well , 
so . it was a big deal , 
but they tried to centralize it in one spot . 
so , in the past couple of years they had it at a state park every year . 
we rent a pavilion and do that 
and that usually works out to be pretty good . 
and they will rent a pavilion on a weekend , 
do you go back ? 
i have not gone back lately . 
in fact this past sunday was the reunion , 
but i did not get to go . 
is it choice or just business 
not getting to go . 
just the distance involved 
i have a younger daughter now 
it 's kind of hard to get her there , and everything . 
but i am going to , hopefully next year get to go back , cause a lot of the family on my mother 's side , has not seen my daughter , 
do you have brothers and sisters ? 
i have one brother , 
and , is your mother still living ? 
so you go back and visit with her anyway . 
would you not ? 
either way there was family reunion time , or not , 
i usually see her a , couple times a year 
so that 's no big thing . 
but i do enjoy the reunions . 
relatives , 
my mother 's father 's family had quite a few brothers and sisters . 
so , it was a large reunion of that group from that descendants . 
and at time they all knew one another . 
and now it has gotten that a lot of those people have died off , 
or what we are left with is the relatives of that group . 
the next generation , 
and so it 's not quite as close as it used to be . 
so , i think people feel less of a desire to really go . 
why do you think that it 's less close than it used to be ? 
those were all brothers and sisters a lot 
or they were all in the same geographical location . 
back around in the twenties and thirties when they were growing up they were all located together , in one small community . 
and when time went on the family grew and moved away and so forth . 
the kids of those people who are not anywhere near one another 
and i do not think they feel the closeness that used to be there . which is a shame 
but that 's just how it is . 
it 's dwindling down every year , 
is that just family 's lack of priority , anymore , maybe 
we get so involved in our work lives and just , social lives and so forth . 
i think that 's some of it . 
it 's just the way i think society is now , is that we do not have the extensive family we used to . 
it 's more of a smaller unit , 
and we tend to try to do things with our immediate family , as opposed to the extended family . of people that we may or may not remember or know very well . 
it really makes an effort to , do this anymore . 
it requires a lot of effort to do that sort of thing . 
i used to enjoy going , 
i still do kind of enjoy it , 
but it 's not as many people there that i really , really enjoy seeing . 
it 's going just for the sake of getting together , 
do you correspond with anybody other than your mother and brother that 's in that group ? 
on a regular basis , not just christmas cards . 
not really . 
but , then again i have some aunts that i do . 
my mother 's sisters , 
but i feel closer to them , because i kind of grew up with them . 
but , as for the rest of that group 
not really . 
and generally when i was growing up a lot of those people , the only time i ever saw them was at the reunion , 
you do not really feel that really close to them . 
in my , father 's family , we get together every year at a different location , either dallas or oklahoma city . 
they had chosen santa barbara , california for this summer and did not get enough people that were willing to go that far , because most of us live either in the midwest , or in the texas , oklahoma area . 
so they cancelled that one and are looking , 
but we have a letter , a family letter , that circulates , 
and it usually goes through me twice a year 
and what you do is take out the last letter you wrote that 's on the bottom and put your new letter on the top , 
and then that 's the way it 's kept in order . 
about twice a year then you are kept up with what is going on 
and when you meet them at the reunion , you do not feel like , i do not know anything about this person . 
you have , read something about what is going on and about their children and so forth . 
that 's a good idea . 
so , you are kind of , half way acquainted that way . 
and that 's been a nice way of keeping us all aware of each other , i think . 
we tried to start that in my husband 's family . 
his mother 's side decided they were going to have a reunion a couple of years ago , 
and i said , let 's start this letter , 
my husband 's sisters started it and sent it to us 
and that 's as far as it got . 
i sent it , on to the next one , 
but we are going in a couple of weeks to the next one , in scottsdale , arizona , for that family . 
we are real glad we got together because since that time there were only one sister and one sister-in-law of the original family left . 
and the sister-in-law died 
and the sister is in a nursing home , 
so , we are glad that we took that opportunity two years ago . 
steve , did you go to college ? 
in fact , i 'm still going . 
that 's good . 
so you probably could give some great advice . 
i do n't know about that , 
but in fact , i 'm in the process of trying to choose a p h d school . 
what 's your interest , 
computer science and cognitive science . 
i 'm in a p h d program right now . 
i see . 
and my area of expertise , it 's information systems , which is a little bit less technical than computer science . 
but my area of expertise is human computer interaction . 
and i think that 's one reason why i 'm part of this study because i 'm working with voice systems . 
so , good luck . 
i guess we should talk about giving advice , though . 
what type of advice do you think you 'd give to a parent ? 
to a parent ? 
and the kid at that age , especially if they 're going into undergraduate , it seems like they think they know what they want . 
and , choosing from my experience i thought i know what i want a lot more than my parents know what i want . 
but i do n't know , 
at the same time , you have to decide what is important about the school , 
i think that 's more important probably than even the career vocation , because most people change . 
i know very few people that started in one field and stayed with it . 
i think that 's what you just said having to do more with the size of the school , the environment of the school , 
i think that 's much more important . 
i 'd advise a parent to send a kid to a school , though , that has a number of different types of programs that some of the smaller schools might be very limited in what they can offer , 
but some of the larger small schools i guess around three or four thousand students can offer a broader range of curriculums and things , 
so if the kid does change , they do n't have to transfer , 
i do n't know , 
they do n't have to give up years of credit transfer and things . 
that 's disruptive . 
and parents hate to hear this , 
because i actually teach college , 
i hate to talk to the parents 
one of the reasons is because , the kid does n't know exactly what they want , 
and i always say make sure you major , in something that you like , even if it 's not going to be your career vocation , because you 'll get better grades . 
i think most employers would probably rather hire a three six in history to be a salesman than someone with a two oh in business administration . 
does that make sense ? 
i see what you 're saying . 
i always tell them that you should major in something you 're going to get good grades in . because that 's always more important overall . 
i do n't know . 
give me five minutes . 
you 're at the office now ? 
at work ? 
i 'm just getting ready to go to lunch . 
that 's like what we were saying , though , 
would you advise a private school , or a public school , 
what 's the trade off there , 
i tell you , 
i live in maryland , 
and the public schools here are , pretty good . 
i teach at a public school , actually , 
and i know that the s a t scores for our admitting freshmen are higher than a lot of the private schools . 
and i would , 
and then right now i 'm teaching part time at a catholic institution . 
i see . 
and i think i 'm getting a better caliber of student at the private school , because i think their parents pay more , 
and i think the kids are a little bit more challenged , because their parents are probably college educated , where at the public school , i do n't think as many parents are college educated , 
and i think because it costs less , the kid does n't take it quite as serious , 
it 's the minimal cost . 
but i think you can get a good education at public or private 
but i think you can also get a bad education at public or private , 
you have to look around at the school . 
i think the bad part is that most parents or kids do n't know what to look for . 
i think i would agree with that . 
in fact , i 'm going through the same thing , where in graduate school , i was trying to choose . 
a particular institution might be better for my area 
the university of small town in arkansas or something , might have some top specialists in my area . 
yet , if i go to u of i or c m u or any big name school , my quality of education might not be that much better , 
but it 's the same thing , 
there 's what will the name recognition , get me , kind of thing . 
does it have a big ten football team 
that 's usually the basic criteria . 
is it a pac ten school . 
i 'm at the university of maryland , 
so in this region though i go to a smaller branch of the university of maryland , 
my diploma will still say university of maryland . 
it does n't differentiate on my diploma , 
though i would put it on my resume , what program i went to . 
but i think i 'm actually at a smaller program , 
i 'm not at the big college park campus , , 
that 's the big one with the football team . 
so i think you 're right , that there 's difficult decisions there based on name recognition . 
when i first was applying for graduate schools , i applied to some big programs in this area , like stevens institute of technology , which is recognized in the northeast as , one step below m i t in a sense , 
so it 's got big name recognition in this area , 
a big science school , no football team , but a big science school , 
and technical people know that . 
i think you 're right , 
you really have to think about that for the job . 
i went to a very small state college when i got my bachelor 's , 
i was in education at first when i was looking for jobs , 
i was going to be a teacher , 
i was just a high school teacher , 
so most people recognized that institution because it was a teaching school sort of , 
but then when i went for graduate work or for a new job , people said to me shippensburg state , 
where is that . 
and when i went into higher education , even at other universities , they were n't aware of it . 
so i think yeah , 
that 's important , 
. i think it depends on if you want a regional job or a national job , 
you need that first , job or so out of school , too . 
i guess another thing that concerns me is it seems like everybody today is still in that mumblex job market 
and where was i at ? 
in going to school , you get taught the things you learn in school , 
but there is also a whole other dimension the growing up while you 're going to school part . 
and actually , in the midwest especially , a lot of the schools like university of missouri , will have a main campus like columbia , which is big , multi disciplinary , 
and they 'll have a satellite campus usually in a smaller town that specializes in the technical field . 
so you 've really sacrificed some social exposure to different groups and everything . 
depending on your technical areas . 
i could see that . 
i talked with people from richardson and plano 
and the first three days , 
and then yesterday i talked with someone from pennsylvania , 
this is only my third call . 
i tried to make calls two different days 
and i could n't get through . 
i know . 
it just takes a very long time 
does it ? 
i 've been trying to do that , 
and sometimes i just ca n't wait that long , 
i know . 
so i just hang up . because it keeps going through the thing over and over again . 
this is hilarious . 
but i knew as soon as i heard your voice , 
i thought , it 's kathy kester . 
. tell me , 
what books have you read lately ? . 
let 's see , 
i ca n't even think . 
i have n't read any , 
and you 're such a reader , 
i know that 
i do n't read all that much for enjoyment . 
i read a lot for school , 
but i just do n't have much time for enjoyment reading . 
the last book i picked up was a book by judy bloom , 
and it was called smart women or something like that . 
i really did n't like it at all . 
it was written back in the early eighties . 
it was almost like a pre-aids scare kind of thing . 
interesting . 
because i right away looked at when it was copyrighted . because i could tell by the theme almost when it was written . 
and it was all about women searching for themselves . and a lot of hanky-panky , going on . 
that kind of was kind of a pop psychology time when a lot of books like that were coming out , i think . 
that 's right . 
and so that makes real sense , that that 's when it was written . 
i was n't really aware that she had written anything for adults . 
for her young people , her books . 
and she 's more famous for that , 
but she has been writing for adults also , 
i 'll be darned . 
and so i thought i 'll just try this and see what it was like . 
the style was very conversational . 
you would have lots of conversations between people rather than any description . 
you know how that is , 
i wonder if she 's written anything really recently , if she 's got anything in print . 
she has , 
because i remember seeing a new book by her that was out , 
and i think it was an adult book . 
i 'll be darned . 
but that 's the last thing i 've read , 
and 
let 's see , 
when i was on vacation on semester break between spring and summer 
and i went to my mother 's , 
i read a book that i should have read when i was probably in high school . 
i read jane eyre . 
wait a minute , 
wait a minute , 
wait a minute . 
jane eyre ? 
it was n't jane eyre . 
wuthering heights ? 
it was pride and prejudice , by jane austen . 
by jane austen , 
that 's what it was , 
and i did n't know what to expect , except i had heard that jane austen was such a wonderful novelist , 
and she really was good . 
i was very much impressed with the way her plot was put together so , intricately 
but as i say , i was pretty much ashamed that i had n't read something before then . 
because i think i read it in college , or had to read it in high school or college , 
but i do n't remember it . 
i think it was some actress reading it . 
how interesting . 
they had an abridged version of it on tape . 
and so i got that for her , 
and she loved doing that . 
i 'll bet , 
but i remember that was the book . 
and now i think it 's around here somewhere , 
i would n't be , surprised , 
i 'm just going to have to put it , in the car sometimes and listen to it . 
i read that , 
and then i 'm trying to think , 
that 's what i do too . 
and that 's about it , because otherwise i 'm reading so much for school . 
i have just started reading a book . 
it 's for school , 
not a literary journal , 
it 's kind of a journal of the history of ideas that 's starting to be published from u t d . 
the first issue does n't come out until next year , 
but 
i 'm doing some reviews of books , to sort of recommend whether or not a full-scale review should be done for the journal , 
how neat . 
it 's really neat because these are brand new books 
and i got this one , 
most of the stuff is on literary criticism and philosophy , and religion and all that . 
this one is on johann sebastian bach , 
and it 's a biography , that is really interesting , 
that 's fascinating . 
it 's fascinating , 
it really is . 
but it 's so long , 
i do n't really have the time to read the whole thing , 
but i think , eventually i 'll go back to it . 
the copyright is nineteen ninety-one , 
so it 's a brand new book . 
it 's a brand new book . 
that would be wonderful to read something like that . 
and this man really shed some light on some , aspects of bach 's genius and , the , more sociological things like the idea that to be a musician was as much of a family occupation as anything . 
families had just loads of musicians . 
and they just went from generation , probably to generation , just with these all passing it from one to the other . 
that 's right . 
that 's the way it was back then . 
that 's interesting . 
it was just really interesting , 
not only am i reading it to decide whether or not it should be reviewed , but also because the board of advisers for this journal right now does n't have a really respected name who 's a scholar on music , 
and i 'm supposed to decide whether i think this man might be a worthy person to be in that position on the board 
i do n't know if i want to take that responsibility or not , 
. but at least i , can tell them what i think , 
that 's rough . 
that 's real rough . 
so it 's real interesting . 
that 's a neat thing to be involved in . 
because i think my alma mater gettysburg , i think they were just starting a magazine that was similar to that . 
i think that 's probably sort of a thing to do in small colleges , 
you see a lot of small colleges doing things , like that , 
because it attracts really a lot people 's interest . 
that 's one way , 
it 's really good public relations for small schools , 
i think so . 
but another one of my projects this summer it 's helping a professor compile a bunch of translations of various poems for a book that he 's writing , 
and so i 'm learning the names , if not the actual contents , of a lot of different poems and a lot of french people . 
translations , what do you mean , 
, for instance a baudelaire poem that was written , in the french and then has been translated into english by , various people . 
i see . 
and the translations are all so different from one another . 
all different . 
that 's interesting . 
so it 's multiple translations of single works 
my work , is just kind of compiling , all that for him . 
that 's great . 
it 's real interesting . 
here i 'm dealing with cleaning the stove 
let me tell you , 
there are days when i would prefer , really doing that . 
, i wish i were dealing with baudelaire . 
that would be nice . 
i do n't know if i 've told you , 
but this is not on the subject , 
does your family normally have a reunion ? 
do you have one , 
on my father 's side we 've really , 
on my mother 's side we 've had several , 
it 's not really on a regular basis , 
but usually sometimes every few summers . 
all the family lives in once place , except for a few of us are scattered about . 
so they 're pretty much just reunited always 
so it 's just once in a while we get the special gathering with everyone together . 
it might be a good time for you to start a tradition . 
i know , 
you could be responsible for that yourself . 
mumblex do that , 
that 's true . 
how about your family ? 
in my family last october was the forty fifth annual reunion . 
you 're , a pro at this . 
the first sunday in october , the jordan family gets together . 
that 's good . 
and all of the descendants of the civil war veterans come together , 
and they come , 
and there 's usually between a hundred and fifty and two hundred and fifty people . 
and then where do you meet ? 
there 's a big community hall in vernon texas , 
and that seems to be sort of a middle ground for all of the texas family . 
do you have relatives in vernon then ? 
a lot of the older family lives in vernon . 
all of his direct descendants have now died 
and the grandchildren are in their seventies and eighties . 
so we 're talking about second and third great children here . 
i took them up until this year , 
they 're grown and gone from home now 
so they take their family . 
but let 's see , 
that would make them , grandfather , great grandfather , great great grandfather , 
so it would be the second great grandchild . 
it 's a community hall . 
it 's , a great big open building that has a wonderful kitchen , 
and you just bring the covered dishes . 
every family brings a dish of some kind , 
and you get all the wonderful old family recipes , that have been handed , down for years . 
we try to stay away from those things which might have salmonella in them . 
that 's good . 
and we choose to bring congealed salad . 
you can bring a congealed vegetable salad , as opposed to potato salad . 
and most of us are very conscious of , sanitation aspects , whatever you 've got to carry for any distance . 
i always , take home baked bread . 
that 's nice . 
that happens to be my specialty for that family . 
i do other things very well , 
but there are others in the family who do them better . 
do they always have the one person in the family who everyone thinks they know how to make this the best , so that 's what they get to cook . 
that 's good . 
i had a professor in anthropology at school who studied family reunions , 
so i learned a lot about them . 
i have n't , been to a lot , 
but we talked , a lot about the rituals , 
you all equated the family reunions as , with the protestant . 
it was the protestant version of the catholic pilgrimage . 
it was an interesting theory . 
she talked about the catholics 
it 's all family centered anyway , 
so you usually are living where your parents live 
you do n't have to come home , 
so the catholics would make a pilgrimage in older europe , 
but when the protestant ethic happened in america , there were people who ever went out and went away from the family to seek their fortune , and then had to come back home for their reunion , so that , became their version of the pilgrimage . 
it was interesting , 
i do n't know how valid it is , 
but she talked about that and how the big picnic table was the symbolic communion of the people gathering together , and about the bread and the ritual placement . 
do you have a certain way that everything is placed out on the table every year ? 
salads go first and things like that ? 
we have kind of a core group that serves as , quote , officers of the organization , 
and they plan the reunions , 
the organize who is going to see to it that the coffee pot gets there , who 's going to rent the tables , who 's going to see to it that the silverware gets turned back to the caterer . 
and each year it 's done a little bit differently , because different people serve in those roles . 
we have a biographer who continues every year to save clippings on any family member , 
and they 're entered into a wonderful scrap book . and pictures of new babies and new people who have been added and , and obituaries to those who are gone . 
and it keeps the family alive , even though it 's very fluid . 
sure does . 
that 's wonderful . 
and they 're very dedicated to that , 
and it 's been really wonderful . 
it helps you hang onto your roots . 
and it helps you feel a strong sense of belonging . 
my husband , on the other hand , was not very close to his family . 
his family was very scattered and very diverse . 
and i got to talking to him , 
i said , how is his nephew doing . 
`` i do n't know , 
i have n't , talked to my brother in three years . '' 
i said , `` how 's your brother doing ? '' 
`` i do n't know . '' 
my son keeps in touch with him , 
but i do n't . 
i said , `` would n't you like to know what 's happening with these people ? '' 
it 's too much trouble . '' 
so i got busy , got together , and put a reunion together for his family . and succeeded in getting all of his brothers and sisters and all of their offspring but one to our place down at lake tawakoni . 
that 's incredible . 
liked to kill me , because i did n't have that group cooperation , 
i did , it by myself . 
and nobody brought covered dishes . 
we had a great big fish fry , 
and i fixed a salad in a number three tub . 
and , it was an enormous task to bring all of those people together with just one or two people helping . 
and we had to provide sleeping arrangements for all of them 
and i told him , 
have you done this repetitively , or just once ? 
we did it that year , 
and then the following summer , we did not have all of the family there . 
we sent invitations . 
we said , `` let us know if you 're coming . '' 
it was when his step father had died the year before , 
his mother was alone , 
and so they came to support her , 
and then one by one , he began to lose family members , 
we had a problem with that . 
and it was difficult to hold them together . 
and then , of course , he died two years ago , 
so that family has gone down to one brother and one sister now . 
i think that 's what happens when they get scattered , 
the family unit falls , into disrepair . 
that was our problem . 
the first major reunion was probably six or seven years ago . 
and then the second reunion , people who maybe had sacrificed things to come to the first one thought , it 's not that big a thing this year , 
and so it kind of wound down , 
and then finally you get the shreveport relatives there , but no one else 
those people who are at that core group manage to keep the vigor alive . 
they 'll send out news bulletins . 
guess who got elected to the legislature , 
where have you all been on vacation recently ? 
recently , 
my most recent trip was last year , 
and that was detroit . 
detroit ? 
is that a nice vacation spot ? 
it was n't really . 
it was to see an old relative . 
and it was just to have some fellowship with her . 
so you probably would n't recommend that as a big tourist spot ? 
the only thing that i visited that is quite a tourist spot is cancun , mexico . 
that would be nice . 
and that was real nice . , 
did you scuba dive there ? 
we just kind of walked the beaches and looked at all the beautiful scenery there . 
that would be nice . 
and just kind of relaxed and unwound a little bit , from our daily routine . 
that would be enjoyable . 
that 's , a nice break . 
i have n't been on vacation in a while either . 
usually when we go , we go to colorado , to estes park area . which is up kind of near denver . and stay in the mountains up there , do a little hiking and resting , get away from the texas heat , that kind of thing . 
that 's always refreshing to get away from . 
so it 's a lot of fun . 
i worked up there last summer , 
so i guess it was kind of like a vacation the , whole summer long . 
that 's nice . 
worked at a camp there , 
and so i got to spend a lot of time up in the mountains . 
so that 's probably my favorite place when i have to go somewhere on a vacation . 
my middle daughter and her husband have just taken up a new activity , 
and that 's canoeing . 
and they 've been to the guadalupe river , 
and they also have been to colorado , 
and they 've really enjoyed it . 
that 's nice . 
we canoed up in arkansas at the buffalo river . 
and that 's the best place that i 've ever canoed . 
it 's really , really pretty . 
i was a little kid then , 
and we 
we stayed at some park 
and they had a little mountain man who came down the river every night , 
and he would give a little talk about mountain things . 
i think he was n't a real mountain man , 
but we were pretty convinced he was a full , hermit who lived up in , the woods , that he 'd come in his little log boat down the river , 
and he 'd make sassafras tea out of sassafras roots that he 'd found 
and , that 's a good family place to go , 
that 's neat . 
and then the river was really nice because it was n't too frightening , 
but it was n't too easy either . 
you learn a lot of skills too , 
and i think you 're more receptive when you 're younger than when you 're older , to learn new skills , 
that 's true . 
and i think it really penetrates in your memory what to do , because you really have a great interest in it . because it 's something you were n't forced to do , 
so you have kind of a relaxed mode of learning . 
and you 're more receptive . 
that 's good . 
let 's see , 
the only other place i 've ever vacationed , we 'd go on camping trips up to texoma and things like that . 
and then i went to england a few years ago . 
that 's exciting . 
i was a , student there and spent a semester studying abroad in london . 
and that was a great time , because , that 's such a neat place 
and there 's not a language barrier 
there 's a little bit , because there 's some of those english words that you just do n't exactly know what they mean , 
and a lot of people have trouble wrestling with their accents , 
but it was really fun . 
i really enjoyed that . 
i 'm probably going back there to work , for a year . 
i had a friend that visited england probably two years now , 
but that 's her next goal is go back to england , 
because she really has a great desire to do that , 
it 's really nice . 
i would spend all my time in london , or most of my time , 
and it was really different being in a big city , 
because i do n't get much into really urban areas a lot 
and it 's sort of a weird little anonymous feeling where no one knows who you are 
and you can spend a whole day without talking to anyone , which i thought i would just hate , 
but it ended up being kind of nice because you 're not accountable to anyone . 
you could just , kind of walk around and observe , 
do your own thing . 
i did a lot of just going out by myself and riding on the subway and watching people . 
and i had a great time doing that . 
it was really interesting . 
that 's wonderful . 
there 's a lot out there to see , 
i know , 
i 'll say . 
i have n't been anywhere else outside the united states . 
i lived across the street almost from canada . 
so that 's a nice place . 
canada is very nice . 
that would be nice . 
i had a friend from there . 
then i 'd love to go somewhere in asia , 
but i 'd have to have a tour guide with me to help with all the language and all that . 
somebody that knows their way around . 
that 's why england was nice . 
even , we traveled in europe for about a week , 
you 've been quite a few places there . 
we have . 
we whirlwinded through , europe . 
once you think about it . 
it was just insane 
twelve days where we 'd just stop a city a day , 
and you slept on the train at night . 
that 's great . 
it was strange , 
it was kind of sad , 
there was n't ever a language problem there , because everyone in germany knew english 
and everyone in switzerland , knew english . 
that 's great . 
so we were kind of pitiful . 
we found one restaurant we were in and got seated , 
and then no one knew english in there , 
and we , finally had to break out the phrase book and start looking up things . 
what did you wind up with ? . 
i had fondue . 
that was easy to say . 
tried to get fondue and white wine , 
we were able to have that pretty effortlessly . 
there were some people at the next table who spoke english , 
so we , elicited their aid for a while 
they kind of guided you . 
and , they were very helpful 
so , it was a pleasant time . 
i 'd love to go back there . 
there 's just not time . 
there 's not enough time to go see everything , and then to afford to see everything . 
i guess that 's why we need to plan for retirement , so when we do have the free time , we 'll have the means to pursue our dreams . 
i guess that 's what retirement is all about . 
that and sleeping late . 
it was nice talking with you . 
i understand that . 
it was nice talking with you too , craig . 
and have a good afternoon . 
you do the same . 
thank you . 
i 'm back on . 
you say you watch evenings mostly ? 
i watch evenings because i work all day . 
i used to watch daytimes . 
mainly all my children , that kind of thing . 
and then sometimes oprah and sometimes donahue , 
but now it 's mainly evenings . 
do you have any that you like well enough that you tape them when you 're not going to be there ? 
which ones ? 
i tape thirty something , and l a law . 
those are the two i like the best . 
two they 're going to change . 
one they 're taking , off . 
i know . 
it 's going to be history , i know . 
we like l a law . 
we do n't watch thirty something , 
but that 's kind of young for us . 
my husband and i are grandparents . 
so we do n't watch that type of show , 
but we like l a law . 
we like , that . 
i 'm sorry they 're breaking the team up , because we liked all the ones that were on there . 
i know . 
i 'm amazed . 
i 'm not sure i like the new ones too much . 
i was surprised at the ending with all the funny things happening and different things . 
i just wonder if , they just want to go on to other projects and not be stuck in this show , since it 's gone on for so long , 
it looks like it might be one of these seven or eight year run things . where you kind of can spend your whole career on one show . 
i know . 
of course , i guess that 's not bad . 
alan alda did it on mash . 
i know . 
is n't that funny ? 
it has n't hurt him at all . 
do you mostly like a story type of thing that lasts an hour ? 
i do n't usually like stuff that continues . 
that 's why i 'm surprised i like those two shows , because usually i like stuff that just ends sort of , that you do n't have to , have watched . 
in one hour , like quantum leap . 
that 's one of our favorites . 
you do n't have to have watched it last week in order to follow , 
so i usually do n't like that . 
which they do at the beginning of the season , to grab your attention , 
that 's always a bummer too . 
i know . 
sometimes it 's better just to tape record both of them and then watch it all in one . 
we do that sometimes . 
i guess i 'm not into real heavy stuff . 
l a law is about the heaviest thing i watch . 
mostly i 'm into it for relaxation , 
so i like things like golden girls or cheers 
or monday night is real good with me , 
what 's that one with burt reynolds ? 
that type of show is what we watch . 
we generally just stay on one channel for all of monday night , just to watch those . 
just some of the times they 're continued , 
but mostly they 're just little vignettes . 
a new one we found we really like is that dinosaurs . 
have you seen that ? 
it 's really funny . 
it 's not a cartoon , 
but it 's dummies and things , that are used , 
and robots probably . 
but there 's always a moral to each story . 
and what night is it on ? 
the times we 've seen it , it 's been on friday night . 
we 've only seen it a couple of times . 
the first one we saw it involved a tradition of when a person reaches seventy-five , 
and i ca n't remember what day they call it , 
but , the son-in-laws get to throw the mother-in-laws when they 're seventy five over a cliff . 
anyway , it goes on , 
and the son-in-law and mother-in-law are sniping at each other and all , 
and then when it comes time for him to throw her over the teenaged son the night before tried to save her by hiding her . 
and she said no , 
he was running in a wheelchair to hide her , 
and she said , `` you ca n't do that . '' 
`` this is tradition . 
this is what old people are supposed to be , thrown over the cliff . '' 
and he said , `` i do n't understand . '' 
it 's real funny that they give the teenagers as the one that questions what 's going on . 
and in the end the son-in-law , when he did get the mother-in-law up to the cliff the teenaged son throws himself in the way and says , `` you ca n't do it , '' 
and then , `` we 've got to do it . 
it 's tradition , '' 
and the son was `` why ? '' 
and so , in the end he does n't throw her over , 
he does n't . 
and , of course , the town thinks he 's just terrible , because that has been tradition for hundreds of years and he 's broken it . 
and then we saw one when a teenage boy comes into his manhood , 
they call it the night of the howling , or something like that , 
and they all go out and howl . 
and the son refused to do it . 
he did , 
so he did n't go howl ? 
he would n't go howl , 
so all the people that worked with the father ostracized him . 
how funny . 
it is . 
it 's real interesting to watch the show , 
our oldest grandson is the one that got us to watching it . 
but it moves real fast . 
it 's real short , 
and there 's always , like i say , a moral to it 
it 's just a half hour , 
or is it hour ? 
half hour . 
that 's all there is to it . 
there 's not many half hour shows , 
it seems like that , 
they 're trying to liken the father in there of the teenage son to jackie gleason show . the way he talks to his mother-in-law and so forth , 
and i guess maybe there are some parts of that , 
but i did n't really see that in there . 
but what i 've read about it , they talk about that . 
but anyway , we 've enjoyed that , 
and , i guess mostly i like the news shows too , the news magazines , like sixty minutes or twenty , twenty or prime time live or something like that all of those shows , if i can do it , 
i like sports . 
i do n't . 
i do , 
i like ice skating 
and i like gymnastics , and some track and field , 
and i 'll watch snippets of baseball games 
and i just do n't have that much time to sit and watch the whole thing . 
and no matter what 's on , i do n't ever just sit and watch t v . 
i 'm usually either doing dishes , 
or i may be sewing , 
or i always have , letter writing , 
i know . 
or i may be working around in the room somehow , 
that 's something that comes from your old age . 
i do n't sit . 
idle hands are the devil 's workshop . 
i know . 
who has time ? 
i do n't have time to sit , i know . 
that 's why i do n't get to watch that much . 
i , watch nine o'clock 
i do okay , because the kids are all in bed , 
but before that , there 's not much time . 
or at six thirty i 'll watch wheel of fortune or something like that . 
if our grandchildren are with us , they have to watch that . 
we do n't watch it unless they 're here . 
i like that . 
i 'll watch , game show kind of stuff 
but . 
and the kids will get you started on stuff like america 's funniest home videos . 
we 've wound up sending in one . 
that 's something i did n't think that we 'd ever do . 
did you send one ? 
my oldest grandson pulling his tooth . 
he would n't let us pull it , 
how funny . 
and it got to the point he was eating a pear here , and he bit into it , and it was just hanging by a thread . 
and i 'd tell him it 's getting ready to fall out , 
and he walked around the house with his face down toward the floor and his mouth open , hoping it would fall out , because he would n't let anybody pull it . 
i think that plano has really done a fantastic job . 
at least their plans are good . 
maybe you saw in the paper this morning that they 've had some problems with , the recycling on plastic , 
with the plastic . 
i thought that was most interesting . 
i thought it was sad that it started out as a good program . but then people started dumping trash . and the wrong objects in there , 
and that concerned me , that people were using it as a way to get rid of things they just did n't want to set at the curb or take to the dump , 
that 's right . 
and , it 's too bad that people have to ruin , a good part thing . 
i guess that 's going to happen . 
a really good effort , 
that 's right , 
i was thinking about the other day , 
it have been nineteen sixty-seven or sixty-eight , 
i went to a meeting , 
and one of the speakers at the meeting was a woman who was recycling 
and she was from saint louis , 
and she had this fantastic family effort in recycling , 
and she was dividing her colored glass and her plastics , and her aluminum , 
and i thought one person is doing that , 
but my thought was it 's a shame , 
but would n't it be much nicer if we all did it , 
because her effort would have really really been a good example for all of us . 
and we were just sort of talking about it at the time . 
and here we are , 
now we 're doing it on a , city wide basis in communities . 
doing it . 
so it 's wonderful that we 've come that far , i think 
what did she do with , 
was she a group that was doing it , 
or was she doing it on her own , 
i think she was , 
i was trying to remember , 
it seems to me that she was doing it on her own , and living in saint louis , 
there were places where she could actually take her things herself , 
and so it was n't something that was being picked up 
and i think she was encouraging other people to do it if they would . 
but i remember her saying i have a trash can for this and a trash can for that , and a trash can for the other thing , 
and i thought that is wonderful , that somebody does that . 
you have to really want to do it , though . 
even what you recycle , 
because we do the , plastics and the aluminum , and the glass and the paper . 
and , of course , then you try to buy right too , 
but a lot of our neighbors say , , you have to rinse out this 
and you have to make sure it 's that , 
sure you do , 
we had neighbors that complained when we got the new garbage cans . 
is n't that amazing ? 
and i thought what are you complaining about , when you 're only going to get picked up once a month or once a week 
, 
people , i do n't know , they find fault in everything , rather than say this is a good effort . 
rather than work with it . 
i do n't know . 
i know what you 're saying , 
kind of people like that 
and it is . 
it 's for everybody 's benefit . 
so maybe we do n't realize it in our lifetime , 
but you have to think grandchildren , and great grandchildren 
and , what kind of quality of life are you leaving them ? 
it 's on down the line . 
and i have a real concern about that . 
i agree . 
we 've never had much trash , 
i was raised in a big family , 
and gene 's family was n't big , 
but they were n't rich , 
and they had to recycle . 
they just used things , 
they did n't , throw things away , before they were used up 
i know , 
i guess i got a good example from my mother , 
because she was always very , very conscientious about recycling things , 
and she is to this day , 
for instance , she would take the waxed paper out of a cereal box and use that for when she made cookies , 
it would go on that 
or , if she needed , sandwich paper or something , she 'd use that . 
she recycles everything . 
and i have done the same thing . 
i recycle zip lock bags and , things like that . 
my kids get the biggest kick out of that . 
although , they do the same thing . 
i think they give me a hard time , 
but i think they know that it 's the right way . 
they do , 
and when they actually get out away from the home , and have to do their own buying of things , then they say , mom used to do this 
and dad used to do that , 
and they appreciate how much it costs to do that . 
that 's right . 
and pretty soon they 're figuring out that 's not such a bad way to go . 
that 's true , 
i do n't know . 
some people now are complaining because the stuff is n't picked up at the curbside , 
and i think you just do your part . 
you ca n't be waited on all your life and expect things to always work out . 
this is what concerns me . 
over in europe they do n't have the kind of waste we do here . 
that 's right . 
you 've got to be in a country , 
even in mexico , you do n't see things thrown away , like we do here . 
what we throw away is , a king 's , ransom to most people , 
and even to people in our country , who scavenge for food 
you ca n't tell a person that lives in a hundred , two hundred , three hundred thousand dollar house that have all that they need , and all that they could want that they 've got to be careful . 
people did n't like him . 
because he tried to say , turn off the lights , conserve this , do that . 
do those little things , 
and , nobody wanted to hear it . 
that make a lot of difference , 
and , i think you 're right , though . 
or you have to grow up with it being important in your life before the message really takes hold sometimes . 
and i do n't know , 
it 's just really interesting to me how now more aware of things i am even myself , than i used to be , a few years ago . 
i 'd go to the u t d cafeteria for lunch sometimes 
and they use styrofoam plates , when they would n't , need to use styrofoam plates . 
and i think to myself that 's crazy . 
i wonder if maybe i need to bring that to someone 's attention , 
and , i 'm seeing more and more of that , 
and i think it 's just mcdonald 's effort to reduce the number of styrofoam boxes that they use , for hamburgers and stuff , 
i think is a good example that even , industry is willing to do it . 
i think the big question too we 're looking at is , would you be willing to pay more for a product , so it can be recycled . 
i think that 's kind of what it 's coming to , i 'm sure . 
that 's right 
and , do we have to wait until all the landfills , are full and there is nowhere else to put our garbage . 
that 's right , 
with the mind set of the american public , i think what they will do is start paying mexico to take our trash . that is n't harmful . 
that would n't surprise me . 
or they will go dump it out in the middle of some ocean . 
i know it , 
that 's the way we solve problems . 
and it 's sad . 
lynn , do you want to start ? 
certainly . 
do you want to tell me about summer vacations you 've taken 
i tend to take two kinds of vacations , the vacations to visit family and the vacations to just have a week being cultural and going to the theater and doing sight-seeing and things like that . 
which is your favorite ? 
i could n't live without the family vacations , 
but my favorite is the indulgent ones , where we go off and , see places that have interested me since i was a kid , for the most part . 
your family does n't live close , then ? 
not anymore . 
they 've been in san diego for the last few years , 
and they 're moving to florida . 
and that 's one of those things , 
you just have to go once a year . 
i understand . 
basically it sorts out into that , 
and then about once every three or four years i try to get over to england , because i lived there for a while , some years back . 
i 've only been there once . 
and i 'd love to go back . 
beautiful country . 
beautiful country , 
beautiful people . 
and i 'd really like to go because i 'm fairly recently married 
we had a great time . 
and my husband has been hearing about these people for years 
but he 's never met them , 
so i 'd like to do that . 
but that 's our typical vacation , 
and we enjoy the family vacations , 
but the other ones are very special getaways , 
and we probably take one of each every year . 
how about yourself ? 
we , as you do , take family vacations , sometimes one a year , 
but this year we 're not going to be taking one for several reasons . 
but vacations we really enjoy , 
i think we 've been on three cruises . 
i 've never , been on a cruise . 
and we really love cruises . 
we 've gone on carnival cruise lines . 
and we 've gone fairly inexpensive as most cruises go . 
we usually book just a month before it 's ready to go . 
and we get upgraded . 
last two times , in fact , we had an outside room 
and it was beautiful . 
and we like not having to take our suitcase in and out of hotel rooms and drag it all around . 
what do you do on a cruise ? 
i 've never been on a cruise . 
you do everything . 
you can be as busy as you want to be , or as laid back as you want to be . 
you can sit in the sun all day around the pool , 
or you can take part in the games that they have going on . 
they always have bingo . 
they have a casino . 
they have a massage parlor . 
they have exercise , 
you can do anything . 
and that 's just aboard ship . 
and then when the ship docks , you get to go sight-seeing and shopping . 
and that 's quite fun . 
and where have you been on these cruises ? 
nassau , san juan , saint thomas . 
we 've been there twice . 
we went but with different people . 
we 've gone with friends each time . 
i see . 
and then we went to the western caribbean , which is port cancun , cozumel , and ocho rios . 
the mexican coast . 
pardon me ? 
that 's all mexico , i think . 
but it was wonderful . 
so we really like those . 
and i guess we just like to go someplace entirely different . 
we 've been to a few places in this country . 
we still have a lot to see , though . 
where are you from originally ? 
we 're from illinois originally . 
and we 've been down in texas eighteen years , 
and so , like you , we always try to make it back home to see the relatives . 
we both still have family there . 
and that 's fun . 
it brings back a lot of memories . 
things are different there , though . 
i do n't know . 
it 's just entirely different world than this area . 
i grew up in dallas , 
so it 's not like i 'm going home . 
did you ? 
my parents retired first to san diego , 
and they 're going now to florida , 
and so they 're going very nice places , 
thank god , 
that will be a pleasure to visit and get to know . 
i really came to love san diego and feel very , comfortable there . 
they 've been there eight years . 
and i just grab the car and drive everywhere . 
that 's great . 
it is nice , 
but it 's not home . 
this is home , 
and i 've never thought about a cruise . 
it 's so funny . 
as i said , we 've done them three times . 
we 'd be going again this year if circumstances had n't changed . 
we 'd probably go . 
my husband would , 
the minute i said the word , he 's chomping at the bit . 
he kind of likes the casinos a little bit . 
but i like all of that . 
what 's the best part , from your point of view ? 
i like seeing other countries and shopping in other places . 
i like shopping . 
i can shop anyplace , shop in london and france and wherever . 
now , my kids are moving to toronto , 
so we 're going to be able to go up there . 
that will be nice . 
so i 'm kind of looking forward to that , except i hate to see them go . 
do n't go in the winter . 
that 's what everybody says , 
i think i 'll try to stay away , except my second grandchild will be born in the winter in january . 
so that will be hard to stay away from . 
there are exceptions made for special occasions like that . 
but the ordinary thing is to stay out of the north in the winter and get out of texas in the summer 
is n't that the truth , 
. that sounds wonderful . 
i guess i would contemplate going on a cruise all circumstances permitting it . 
there 's all age groups too , 
and that 's kind of fun . 
if you sit at a table with a lot of people for your meals , you meet different people . 
you may meet people thirty years older than you , or younger , 
and everybody is really interesting , 
and everybody is there to have a good time 
how long are the cruises ? 
we 've only gone on the seven day cruises . 
they have shorter ones 
and then they have ten day ones . 
but i think seven days is long enough for us . 
by that time we 're ready to get home and get back to our routine . 
i think most vacations seven days is enough for us . 
i think when we went to england and france , we were there ten , twelve days , 
and that was pushing it a bit . 
when i spend enough money to go overseas , i , go for a long time . 
that makes sense , 
it really does . 
we went to panama too . 
that 's interesting . 
went to panama last august . 
our son-in-law is from panama . 
and we went with our daughter and son-in-law to visit his parents , who live there . 
and his father is a doctor 
and his mother is a kindergarten teacher , 
and they took time off , 
it was their winter 
and they were having a little break , 
so they took some time off that they could show us around . 
and it is a beautiful country . 
it is beautiful . 
they have mountains . 
we were an hour away from the mountains or an hour away from the shore . 
that 's really nice . 
and it is gorgeous . 
they live in a small town called david , which is northern panama up near costa rica . 
and it 's just a gorgeous country . 
most people do n't realize it . 
i think if they could get tourists coming to their country , they 'd improve the economy considerably . 
. maybe now things are calming down again . that will happen . 
we really hope so . 
that 's really great . 
as i said , basically all i 've done is go back and forth to parents 
that 's pretty good . 
that 's pretty good . 
and , my husband had a conference in l a , 
so we spent a week in l a 
do you like l a ? 
i 'm very unusual . 
do you do exercise ? 
i do , 
i guess it actually changes , 
i do a number of different things simply walking with my wife 
and sometimes my daughter will come along on her little bicycle . 
and then moving up , i run in the mornings , 
not every morning , it probably averages about two days a week 
and then with my wife i actually go to the gym and lift weights , which is n't quite exercising , 
but it 's along the lines , 
how about yourself . 
that 's a hard question to answer because i do physical things , but i do n't always set out for them to be exercise . 
i walk with my parents , occasionally , 
nothing 's real regular about this because i have a weird schedule and they have a normal schedule , 
and i play racquetball , 
but i have n't since i 've been out of school . 
i do n't have anywhere to do that , 
but that 's going to start soon again 
and i play softball once a week , which is kind of more recreation than exercise . 
because i really do n't like to exercise , 
i think that 's the basic point of it , is i do n't enjoy it if i know that it 's exercise , 
but if it 's like a social activity or a recreational activity , i do n't mind 
so i have to disguise it , 
it 's like feeding little babies food and telling them it 's something else so that they 'll eat it . 
that 's right . 
that 's kind of the same thing for me . 
i have to not know that it 's exercise so i can do it . 
so you look at it more as a task . 
if it 's exercise , it 's a task . 
i do n't want to do anything i have to do . 
i see . 
i 'll voluntarily clean the bathroom , 
but i wo n't do it if i have to do it . 
i 'm thirty-two years old which is probably different than yourself 
i 'm twenty-two . 
and so , it 's interesting that as you get older you begin to understand that you need to exercise . 
my job at texas instruments , i have to sit in front of a computer all day and make phone calls , so , that , i do n't get any exercise doing that 
and plus there 's a build up of stress 
so i need to go out and take those walks after dinner , 
and i need to go out in the morning and run 
or i 'll just get nuts 
so that 's kind of a motivator , 
so even though i can look at it as a task , i get some kind of global benefit from the whole thing by saying , i 'm lowering my chance of heart attack , and that type stuff . 
eating right and no cholesterol and all that . 
i do all that . 
i 'm doing that more and more than i used to 
i 'm getting better about this knowing that i need exercise and doing it , 
but it 's still at the task stage . 
is it a pleasure for you , 
something as simple as a walk with my wife is very enjoyable . 
i do that at the end of the day , 
during that time the stress from the day goes away . 
i get to share whatever i did with my wife , and vice versa . 
and the running , 
and i enjoy that too . 
year , 
i 've been running since high school on track teams and the like , 
so , running , i 'm at that point which you probably get to after about six months of dedicated running where you do n't feel your muscles any more 
and you do n't think about the pain of it . 
you take the time to relax some how 
and you think about other things . 
during those first few months you have to think about running and why your elbow hurts and why you ca n't breathe and this and that , 
and that 's no fun . 
and it 's so hard to get past that for a lot of people . 
i never got past that stage . 
i think i look better . 
i 'm not a huge person , 
i 'm just a regular looking guy , 
and my wife thinks the same thing about both me and herself that get that little bit of definition in your muscles is attractive 
so that pays also . 
that 's good . 
so i guess that aspect of that takes away the work with my wife , which is nice , 
i love her , 
i enjoy being with her 
i guess that 's one thing , 
but also that long term benefit of a little bit of tone in your muscles . 
that 's it , 
i do the occasional push up and sit up . 
i have n't really brought myself to go to the gym , because that 's very stressful to me , 
because i felt real competitive there , 
i do n't let that bother me , 
but 
that 's something that comes with time , too , 
i 'll tell you , 
the sit ups and push ups are excellent , 
you 're struggling against your own body weight 
you can have variety by putting your feet higher or lower , by putting your arms further apart or closer together , by doing them real quick or real slow 
i know in the push up , at least , you can get chest muscles and the back of your arms quite built up just doing push ups . 
that 's a good idea , 
but i do have my ride , 
we have a stationary bicycle and a stair step machine here at the house . 
is that right . 
i 'll do those once in a while just at eleven thirty when love connection 's on and i ca n't sleep , 
i 'll get up and stair step for half an hour 
that 's funny . 
it 's pretty healthy , 
i need to get started on that . 
maybe not . 
i 'd say at twenty-two you do n't necessarily need a plan as long as you 're getting the exercise otherwise . 
when your life becomes sedentary is when you have to make yourself a plan , 
and what 's real funny about plans is that there 's a struggle when you add a plan to your life , 
something else has to go away 
and that 's the hard decision , is , if i 'm going to run in the mornings , what do i trade it off for . 
the answer 's sleep . 
sleep . 
if i 'm going to walk at night , what do i trade it off for . 
star trek 
or it 's always trade offs , 
and as you get older you have to really think what can go , and what , to replace this thing . 
it 's not just exercise , but anything . 
it 's very hard . 
and i do n't think you should worry about not having a program yet . 
i hope so . 
i think we covered it . 
sounds good . 
nice talking with you , craig . 
you too . 
have a nice day . 
you too . 
i guess if i was having a dinner party depending on the number of people , i might cook a brisket or a roast or maybe a chicken dish 
and i guess i usually plan probably a lettuce salad and a potato dish , 
and we usually serve fresh fruit and then make a dessert . 
that sounds good . 
we 're not real wealthy at the moment . 
last time i had people over for dinner we had lasagna , 
and i used my mother 's recipe , 
i really like it . 
you cook the noodles and brown hamburger and put tomato sauce in with it 
must be some italian spices in there . 
i ca n't remember . 
but for the cheese part , you mix sour cream , and cream cheese and cottage cheese and layer all that . 
that sounds good . 
it 's good . 
that sounds good . 
diane , get down from there . 
and let 's see , 
what else did i serve with that . 
bread , do you have bread to go with it ? 
corn , 
i made french bread with that one too . 
i have a recipe that 's pretty good for that . 
lasagna 's always wonderful for large crowds . 
i 've heard a lot of people say , the short cut on the cooking for lasagna , 
they 've told me that they go to sam 's and buy a great big pan of lasagna . 
i 've heard that sam 's has a really good lasagna 
in fact i think i had it at a party once . 
did you ? 
it was good . 
i know people that have served it 
and they say , if you have company coming when you do n't want to be always in the kitchen , it 's easy , 
easy . 
and they said it 's good . 
so , that , always sounds good to me , 
i feel like i 'm in the kitchen cooking a lot . 
i know . 
seems like i cook a lot of dinners not always for company , just for family . 
so , feels like i 'm often in the kitchen . 
not my favorite place , but . a necessity . 
but a time consuming place . 
let 's see , 
trying to think what else i like to serve . 
my mother likes to serve taco grandes . 
have you ever had , that ? 
i do n't know , 
what that is . 
i do n't know what that is . 
you take a flour tortilla 
and you fry it like a taco shell 
for all the inside parts you brown hamburger and put some tomato sauce in it , 
and i like to just add picante sauce to get the mexican flavor 
so you do n't have to mess with spices and stuff . 
and , then let 's see , 
and you heat up refried beans , 
and you cut up tomatoes and lettuce and grated cheese , 
and what you do to make it , you take the shell 
and you spread the beans on first , 
then you put the meat , 
then you put the grated cheese , 
let 's see , 
what 's next , 
then , i usually put the cut up tomatoes next and then the lettuce , 
katy , i 'm on the phone . 
get a towel or go change . 
i 'm on the phone . 
a little sour cream is good and chopped olives , 
do you like to make your own guacamole ? 
we do n't make it very often , i guess , 
i do n't very often . 
usually when we get avocados my kids just like to eat them plain 
do they ? 
i just cut slices off 
and . i like an avocado sandwich , too . 
that 's good , 
that 's good , 
or it 's always good on top of something in the sandwich . 
i made guacamole that i would take to a pool party across the street the other day , 
and everyone there said they never made guacamole salad . 
what you want . 
where do they get it ? . 
i do n't know , 
i guess they do n't have it at home , 
i guess they just buy it at a restaurant when they eat it at a restaurant maybe . 
they just said they never had it at home . 
, taking this as a dip , i thought , sometimes when we have it at home , it turns dark on the top so quickly , 
it helps if you leave the pit in it . 
does that help ? 
if you leave the pit in the bowl with the thing , especially while you 're waiting before you serve it . 
that 's supposed to help keep it from turning brown so quick . 
i 'll have to remember that . 
that day i just took extra lemon and just squeezed across the top 
and it really stayed longer than i ever thought it would , 
that 's good . 
i thought maybe that was the trick . 
that probably helps , too . 
we 've been buying turkey lately , instead of beef , 
do you want it ? 
we have too , 
the ground turkey , the meat is softer 
everybody seems to like it . 
do you want scrambled ? 
so . sometimes it seems to be cheaper , too , 
so we often buy it 
we buy it , 
so we bought that 
or we bought the filets , and then the chicken , or turkey nuggets , 
and i do n't think anybody in my house knows the difference , unless you tell them . 
i do n't think mine know either . 
in fact , we 've been getting lunch meat that 's turkey , too . 
it costs less than the other , 
i do n't know , 
there 's supposed to be something more healthy about it . 
poultry instead of the beef and pork , 
less cholesterol . 
i guess that 's probably all we need to do for tonight . 
i ca n't think of any other specific things i like to serve . 
i always like dessert . 
i do n't know what you call it . 
you mix cottage cheese and a package of jello and a thing of cool whip 
that 's good and quick and easy , 
that 's always good , 
probably the only family recipe that we make is cheese cake , 
and we take a recipe from my grandmother 
it 's probably fairly typical , 
this is a very timely topic inasmuch as we 're going to a family reunion this weekend . 
are you really ? 
where is it going to be ? 
down at lake texoma lodge . 
this is one that 's the baker family reunion 
and this has been going on at least twenty-five years or thirty , something like that . 
that 's marvelous . 
maybe longer than that , i 'm going to get back into the fifties sometime . 
i married into the family , 
and the first time i went was about fifty-seven , i think . 
but this one has been well organized 
and in fact it used to be at lake brownwood , 
and now it 's lake texoma , because that 's more central location for people from oklahoma and texas to come to . 
i 'm sure location 's really important as far as figuring out where one ought to be . 
very important , because you 'll start losing people if it 's too far to go . 
we have factions , when it 's one part , 
i have one reunion on my mother 's side , 
and we found that if it 's in a certain part of texas , some people come , 
and if it 's elsewhere , other people come 
we never get them at both of them 
never get them at both places , 
so i think we need to find a new place . 
listen , 
they 've had this one , 
of course , over the years it has built up as far as the organization is concerned 
but now they have a golf tournament on the saturday . 
that 's a neat idea . 
and they get the community building there at lake texoma lodge , 
and everyone brings in food 
and then for the saturday night dinner they bring in kentucky fried chicken from durant , 
and it really has worked out . 
how many people , jim , are involved ? 
generally i think it 's been as high as about a hundred and twenty people . 
i think normal 's about sixty or seventy . 
i guess ours probably is n't that big . 
our family is dwindling , for one thing . 
and i often feel funny because i 'm in a branch that 's all but died 
i just have one aunt and my family . 
so sometimes when these other families get together , they 're really pulling in aunts and uncles and grandkids , 
and we 're kind of off on the sidelines . 
but it does remind us that we have family and roots . 
so we keep going even though we 're not a real big part of it . 
our family reunion started out my wife and i were the kids , the newlyweds 
and now we go , 
our children go , 
and our grandchildren are going now . 
that 's great . 
so it 's wound up that we 're the old folks now . 
they have generally a volleyball net set up and horseshoes to pitch , 
and they organize a baseball game for the kids 
and several people bring boats , 
and there 's a place they take the kids up to the lodge and go swimming up there in the afternoon , 
so it 's a full day . 
so there 's lots to do . 
some of the people come down on friday afternoon and spend the whole weekend , 
and some just come in for saturday 
so , it has worked out quite well , 
and it 's a chance to see some of the relatives you do n't see all year long except that once a year . 
that 's true . 
that 's neat . 
i think they 're really fun . 
we go to mine regularly , 
and then we go to my husband 's occasionally down in temple , 
and he has a large family , 
so it 's fun when we go to that one . 
my side of the family is from back in ohio and west virginia , 
and i think we 've been to one in thirty-five years or something like that , 
so , that 's just too far away . 
that is a problem with the distance . 
the people that we have that do n't come are out el paso way 
and it 's just too much for all of them , all of that group to travel . 
it 's an , all day drive just to get to this area . 
but then we have the same attitude when it 's out , there , although this year we 're going out . 
they 're going to have it at fort davis 
and we thought that would be fun to kind of tie it in as a vacation time as well as reunion . 
each year , of course , they elect officers of the family reunion 
and a number of years ago , back in the early eighties , my wife was president . 
we discovered how much work it is just to organize and get it together . 
and it takes a lot of planning , and assembling of stuff . 
and choose , some place that everybody 's going to like as far as food and all that . 
that 's correct . 
that 's a heavy burden . 
it is , 
i tell you . 
i do n't really care for her to be president again . 
but it 's a lot of fun . 
we 've enjoyed it , 
and the grandkids really enjoy it because it 's the only time of the year they see all their cousins from oklahoma . 
and it 's good for kids to know that they have other family . 
and this year they 're all excited . 
the show this weekend , 
this weekend 's going to be a rock and roll show 
my two grandsons and one of their cousins are going to dress up and lip sing to a rock song in jeans and t-shirts and such . 
what fun . 
so it 's going to be exciting for them , and for us too . 
probably lots of laughs . 
there have been some really wild shows put on there . 
they really get into it . 
it sounds like you really have a good structure and have it going along . 
ours is still kind of loosely organized , 
and the same people usually get stuck with doing it . 
that generally happens . 
and , they do it as a labor of love . 
so , the officer idea is a good idea . 
we 've had various things over the years to raise funds for it 
and again , it 's not cheap to rent the lodge up there or the meeting room down in the cabins and such , 
they 've tried passing the hat , 
and they 've had auctions and various things to raise funds , 
and some people do 
and some people do n't . 
and it 's not fair that everybody not contribute , 
excuse me . 
but that 's the family reunion story . 
a lot 
i enjoyed talking to you . 
been nice talking to you . 
what do you think is the biggest problem ? 
the biggest problem in this part of town seems to be the attitude and the atmosphere in the schools that you can throw money at it , 
i do n't know , 
to me it seems like the schools are reflecting society in a bigger way because the general values that we 're teaching kind of conflict with what we expect out of people in school , 
do you think it 's the values that they 're teaching in school or the values they get from home . 
learning is not a revered endeavor , really , 
it 's a lot more , 
it 's socially unacceptable , 
they put a lot more emphasis on athletics 
and things like that are a lot more glorified generally in society , 
and i think that carries over to school a lot . 
i think that the biggest problem is with the home environment being part of it . 
i think too many parents expect the school to teach the moral aspects of things to the kids while we 're not going to worry about teaching you manners or teaching you respect for anyone or anything like that and then expect them to pick it up at school , 
you 're not going to do that , 
you 're going to carry to school out into the world what you learned at home , 
and i think that that part of that , 
and part of it 's the family , i think , 
and part of it 's the living conditions certain people are subjected too , 
drugs is a big problem now , 
and i think that 's another root problem . 
i wonder if that 's a root problem or not , 
because i think about that a lot , 
and it 's just like , everybody likes to blame everything on drugs now , 
but i wonder , 
that 's kind of side tracked , 
but i just remember seeing on the news the other night , they had the thing about how catholic schools are doing so much better 
i thought , of course they 're doing better , 
and not so much when i was growing up , catholic schools are generally considered a little bit easier than the public schools , 
but they still had a better success rate , simply because they started with a lot better raw material . 
everybody that went to a catholic school at least , had education as a priority like you said and kind of had a whole conducive atmosphere to it . 
i think like you say , it 's the socioeconomic mix 
you look at the schools like that where you 've got a lot of kids that might be more well off , going to a private catholic school or whatever , 
and they 're not all that way , 
but some that are they 're not quite the same as the kids that are going to the inner city public schools . 
this is interesting because in my mind i do n't have the stereotype of a catholic school being a suburban kind of environment , 
but this was actually inner city 
people were sending , 
just because their kids had the ability and the drive to try and get an education , they did n't send him to a public school , 
like you said , you have the drug problem and just the general atmosphere where you 're pressured not to learn in instance , 
in a lot of cases like that , if kids are going to a public parochial school like that , it 's because the parents are more interested in them receiving an education . 
i think it shows that the parents have some desire for the kid to do well , 
and that may be passed on down to the kid as well , 
and maybe they pick up on that . 
and then from the other aspect maybe the school itself has more emphasis on trying to do a good job because the classes may be smaller , 
they may be able to give the resources that 's needed to do a good job . 
i mean , 
and what would you do to fix the school systems ? 
that 's a tough question how to fix the school system . 
and i think this is happening some around the country in terms of morals , trying to teach the kinds of things that are n't getting taught at home , and respect for other people . 
i think that 's a big part of it . 
if you do n't care about property and people you 're not going to care about learning , 
you 're not going to really care about yourself . 
that 's what i was going to say . 
it 's the chicken and the egg thing . 
i wonder , 
a lot of times people literally tear apart their own schools vandalism wise , 
it 's been a while since i been in high school . 
they 're even in grade school when they do that . 
but i ca n't remember exactly what goes through their head when they 're doing that . 
but you got to think in a way it 's kind of a outward showing of that they do n't think they have a chance of doing anything , and take it out on the school . 
but that 's not an easy task , 
that 's why i say , it 's a tough question what would you do , 
because even trying to instill those values is kind of hard when you 're growing up in a home which may be just the pits , 
and you do n't have any kind of a good environment to live in , 
it 's kind of hard to say , you need to take care of other people 's stuff as well , when you barely have anything yourself . 
i could see where that would be a problem , 
my children as a matter of fact , are all grown now . 
so , i am assisting them with their children in their selections , 
my children are grown , 
but they 're teenagers 
so i have three children ages fifteen , seventeen and twenty 
and i guess about when the youngest one was in kindergarten i started working at a preschool and doing some work , 
and then i took a couple of years off and then went back as a music teacher in a preschool , 
so i am in the child care environment 
i , myself , really feel like the structured day care program is more successful in today 's environment than the one on one care is . 
when my children were growing up , up and until they were in the preschool situation , i had them in a home with a lady who kept two or three kids , 
and i felt like that home environment was very important to them . 
it was important to me 
and i feel that they had that one on one that 's so necessary at that age . 
it is . 
however in today 's environment it may be more critical to have the ability to interact in large groups , simply because that 's the way our young people are dealt with . 
in other words , there 're more people , 
they 're dealt with , in packages . 
that 's an interesting point of view . 
seeing the children in the school the way i do , we can always tell the ones that have not been around children at all when they come in as three year olds as opposed to the ones that have been in the program , that started at twelve months maybe , and were even in there one day a week which is all our school provides for the under three year olds 
but still they have an opportunity to be with other children 
and it is true , 
without a doubt , 
i recently stopped by mcdonalds , 
and i was sitting out in their little playground while my granddaughter was playing on the things , and was visiting with another mother who was there with her children , 
and she was telling me that she was given the opportunity to manage a day care center , 
and of course , she had just gotten her degree , 
and she was so enthusiastic , 
and she was excited about it 
and she was going to accomplish all of these things 
however when it came to hiring and staffing people who cared and who were willing to take care of those children and spend that kind of time , the pay is minimal 
it is . 
and it takes people with total and complete dedication who really do n't want to make a living for themselves in order to be in that environment , 
that 's right , 
that maybe have another salary in their family where they can do that , 
and that 's what i had the opportunity of doing 
and i could concentrate on the creativity , and really having a lot of fun with the children and providing , them with a great atmosphere , 
they ask , so much of those caretakers for the amount that they pay . 
they are to be there ahead of time , 
they 're there early to receive the kids , 
and they have to be there at sometimes six o'clock in the morning . 
that 's right . 
and , then they have to work until the place closes at six p m 
and then it 's their responsibility to clean up and be prepared for the next day because they do n't have cleaning crews in most of those . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
and she just had a terrible time keeping sincerely dedicated people simply because they could not live with a kind of hours and the salary . 
ours is a church , 
and so we do n't have the expenses of a building 
we share the expense with the church , 
but we do n't have enough 
so it is a lot different . 
my older son was adopted 
so he went into child care at two weeks 
and my younger son went into child care at six weeks . 
so , they were in that environment actually , up until they became seven and nine . 
and at that point i said , they have been given the custodial care that they need , 
and the after hours care has been as good a quality as i can provide for them . 
however , they 're going out into the school environment now , 
they 're under a lot of other influences . 
i need to be here for them . 
i need to be involved in their school , because i want to be the one who influences the way they develop . 
so i quit working after my kids started to school and got involved in volunteer work in their private school so that i could help direct their learning experiences and their development . 
you did ? 
i felt that anybody who cared and loved the kids could change their diapers and feed them and bathe them and hold them . 
but when time came to direct their ability to make choices to develop the kinds of things that they 're going to need to interact with other people , i felt like i needed some strong influence there . 
well , that 's different than most people do it . 
a lot of people do it really the reverse and go to work after the children are in school . 
i know . 
that 's right , 
i just felt very strongly about that , 
and i did not work as a matter of fact , 
my son was in the second grade , 
and when he started at skyline high school , i asked him , son where do i go to sign up for the p t a ? 
and he said , mom , do n't do that to me , 
do n't do that to me . 
so i knew it was time to go back to work . 
but i feel very good about spending those years with my boys . 
that 's true . 
and i was just really grateful i only had one bad child care experience . 
it was in a home . 
the care taker that they had had since they were infants just could not do it . 
she was from argentina 
and she was going back home , 
and i could n't just wait for three or four months and then bring them back to her 
so i had to find a new place 
and i put them in this home , 
the kids cried when i took them , 
i could hear the kids crying when i went to pick them up 
they were always cranky and irritable 
so i just took off and went there one day , 
and the children were left unattended in a room , 
they were not well cared for 
how awful , 
so it did n't take me long to take them out of that place 
but , that 's the only bad experience i had , 
the rest of the time they stayed in la petite academy 
and i was very pleased with their development and their progress . 
they learned a lot of things in those public environments that you just as soon they did n't learn , 
but they 're going to learn it sometime , 
for the most part , they did have good care , 
and it did appear to me that the people who cared for them had a good concern for them , 
and in one particular case they had a summer program where they were to be taken to the y and taught to swim which just pleased me to death because i 've always been afraid of the water 
however , my older son came home 
and he said , mom , i do n't like that man , said , he took me by the head and dunked my head under the water and told me i had to get my face wet or i 'd never swim 
it did n't take me very long to hot foot it over to the school and relay that to them , 
and well , she said , kids do exaggerate , 
but she said , let 's go ahead and send him another day , or two days , 
and i promise you faithfully , i will watch the instructor every minute and see exactly what 's happening . 
do you have p c -s ? 
i have a personal computer at home . 
it 's an a t compatible . 
i do n't use it very much any more . 
i used to use it quite a bit . 
i also have a p c at work that i use as a terminal . 
i do some p c stand alone work on it , 
and i can transfer data back and forth between the p c and the main frame . 
what about you ? 
do you own a computer ? 
i sort of own a computer . 
we have two p c -s at home , 
but neither one do we really own . . 
are you leasing them ? 
both of them are sort of work related , 
loaners from work ? 
that 's the nicer way . 
do you work for t i ? 
actually i 'm doing consulting right now because i just had a baby , 
and my husband 's working at bell labs , 
but he 's really from france , 
and these computers actually are from france . 
what brand are they ? 
one of them 's a compaq 
it 's a three eighty-six 
i 'm jealous . 
and the other is actually a i b m p c compatible , 
it 's a three eighty-six , 
i guess it 's twenty-five , 
three eight six twenty-five c maybe 
i do n't know , 
what kind of consulting do you do ? 
i actually do some work , working at m i t and at nist , national institute of standards and technology in washington , 
and then i worked for dragon systems for a while . 
what kind of work do you do when you 're consulting ? 
it depends , 
it 's very different in the different places , 
is it programming related ? 
program related , 
research related , 
and i work in the speech field , 
and i do a lot and looking at the acoustic characteristics of speech , 
and i do that type of stuff typically for other people , 
and here we use the p c -s to do that . 
mostly i use it for writing papers and things like that . 
word processing . 
do you know latek ? word text processing , 
i 'm not familiar with that . 
you can call it word processing , 
but i do n't usually use a word processor to do it 
and we do n't have too much standard software . 
we have n't really bought any commercially available software at all . 
so we do n't use it for things like our accounts and addresses and things like that . 
we use it more for just writing programs when we need to or doing research , looking at the speech signal and then doing writing , and also just as a terminal , 
and we connect to other computers to read our net mail and things like that . 
you 've got a modem in it then . 
neither one has a modem , 
but we have a modem . 
at home you have a modem that you can connect to each of them ? 
neither one , 
and so it 's an external modem . 
we have . 
when i got mine i had an internal modem in it 
i used it quite a bit when i was looking at information on a large bulletin board sponsored by a newspaper in fort worth 
but went out of town for a while , 
and sort of got off the bulletin board and off of my micro completely 
and after a while the modem started making noises on its own even without using it on the computer , 
i could turn a computer on , 
it 'd start squawking . 
so i finally opened up the box and took it out . 
that was it . 
i think that 's the thirty second warning . 
i did n't hear it . 
do you hear , the beep in the background . 
that 's an ambulance or something going on here , i think . 
where are you , 
i have n't ever noticed the thirty second warning actually . 
in manhattan . 
are you at home now ? 
i 'm at home . 
you 've got a lot of traffic noise real close . 
it 'd be interesting for the people that look at this signal because there 's a lot of background noise that people can hear . 
so it 'll be interesting how much of it actually gets picked up . 
i ca n't do this much later than now , between sort of five thirty and six thirty or something like that , because the traffic outside , they honk the horn so loud i ca n't even hear the phone call . 
what time is it now where you are ? 
about twenty after four . 
so you 're an hour ahead of where i am . 
i 'm in central time zone . 
we 're eastern . 
and did you ever try using prodigy or any of those systems ? 
i have n't done that . 
i know someone who has , 
and she 's very pleased with it . 
she told me some of the things you can do , 
and it 's just a very handy tool to have . 
it makes things very convenient . 
you can save a lot of money , too . certainly cut down on long distance charges if that 's what you have in mind . 
i 've never tried using that , 
i do n't know too much about it . 
did you use commercially available software 
i have used lotus . 
i have used word perfect 
not heavy use . 
i 've used d base 
and i 've used a substantial amount of shareware . 
i have n't done much lotus work connected with my job . 
i 've been through three classes 
and i have a great deal of respect for it . 
i have n't done much word processing work with my job . 
i do some 
and the d base work i 've done was strictly class related . 
i 've never used d base , 
but i 've heard both good things and bad things about it . 
it 's probably the granddaddy of most data base management systems . 
it 's got some pretty strong competitors . 
some of them have reviews that are better than d base , 
so , i think by now , it 's a matter of personal taste . 
people told me that it was sort of cumbersome to use . 
i can understand that very easily . 
i 've had a class on r base and also in paradox 
and both of those seem very easy to use compared to d base . 
do you think d base is more flexible or allows you to do more . 
or do you think the others are pretty much compatible these days ? 
i would n't say compatible , 
but certainly comparable . 
i did n't mean compatible , 
i meant comparable . 
my brain is going to mush . 
and what do you work on at t i ? 
i 'm a computer programmer on the i b m main frames . 
i do mainly business data processing . 
i also handle production support for the systems in my area of responsibility . 
sometimes i get called late at night at home because there 's a production problem , 
and that gives me the opportunity to come in to work and fix it , if i ca n't think of some thing to tell the trouble shooter while we 're on the phone . 
what do you think about it ? 
they 're already doing it in the armed forces , where they handle weapons and so forth , 
they do it to prisoners 
so , i feel like it should be mandatory in some professions , 
and i think if , an employer feels that he wants to drug test employees and they do n't like it , then they should not be employed there . 
i would not mind it . 
i especially agree that if it 's an area where they could cause somebody else harm or injury , absolutely . 
and i do n't have a problem at all with employers testing in the hiring process , 
but i do n't have a problem with them too much , testing even after the fact , 
but i do a little bit where it would n't hurt anybody . 
i do n't know , 
sometimes i think they carry it a little bit too far . 
unless an employer has a reason to believe that the work competency of the employee is hurting the business . 
and then it 's not a problem . 
number one because generally if they are involved in that type of thing they are into theft 
it 's not going to be wholesale because of the cost . 
there 's no way . 
but my concern is school bus drivers . 
the train drivers , 
i 'm in education , 
i 'm not even opposed to it for that . 
i 'm concerned in the medical field . 
i think they should screen for alcohol in these areas , too because i consider that a drug . 
i wish they would . 
i wish they would , 
and that is even probably more widely abused by the masses than drugs , so to speak . 
i know . 
and it does n't take that long . 
they do n't have to be totally roaring drunk 
just a little off on their timing could mean life . 
just 
t i has the random testing policy 
and , our names or our employee numbers or whatever are in a pool 
so i 've already been tested once when i was hired and once since they initiated this random testing program . 
but i work with one girl who was tested , 
her name got randomly selected three times in six months 
and i think that 's the only reason i have a problem with it , when there 's no reason to suspect someone . 
control . 
that 's enough to make anybody paranoid . 
that way you ca n't feel like somebody 's out to get me . 
it 's almost like being selected for jury duty . 
so your name came out of pot when they spun the wheel , 
that 's just the way it is . 
either just the lucky or the unlucky one , depending on how you look at it . 
there are so many people with their petty axes to grind 
it could really get out of hand . 
if somebody does observe you at a party using drugs i would think that it would be their obligation to report that . 
to report it , 
and i guess you 'd report that to a supervisor , maybe anonymously or something because i would feel very uncomfortable working with someone i knew was using either illegal drugs or abusing alcohol , 
personnel , or something , 
i 'd feel really uncomfortable . 
i do n't know what kind of work you do , 
but there would even be a situation where you were at a machine and working with somebody that was that way . 
we have a lot of people who work on the line . 
i 'm in accounting , 
they could n't hurt me with their ten key or something , 
but out on the line , they 've got people working some serious equipment . 
especially given today , the drug abuse that goes on , i just think employers have to have some kind of way to see that they 're not being put at risk . because they 're the ones who are going to have the lawsuits , the insurance claims , et cetera , 
put at risk . 
i agree totally . 
and i 'm not sure but what some of the insurance claims are n't due to illnesses brought on by drug abuse or alcohol abuse . 
and in the long run , we 're all paying for that 
so it protects us in the long run hopefully when they do that . 
i was trying to remember , 
there was a court case here where i live , just a few months ago . 
the city government wanted to institute the random drug testing 
and the city workers took them to court to protest , saying that it invaded the search and seizure amendment 
and it 's still tied up in the legal channels . 
they have n't ruled on whether they can test them or not . 
so i 'm curious especially since a local employer is also already doing it , 
is it , just a small group of the employees that are concerned ? 
it 's the whole city , 
seems like the whole group of city employees that 's raising a stink over it . 
they just do n't want to be drug tested . 
my husband and i have never been in a situation where somebody said you have to be drug tested . 
my husband 's retired from i r s agents . 
however , this is n't a problem that we have either alcohol or drug , 
and so , in our minds we 're thinking what 's the big deal . 
that 's the way i looked at it . 
if i had something to hide , it 's one thing , 
you know you do n't , 
so it 's not as big a deal , 
and you sometimes wonder when these people protest so much whether they 're really concerned about their rights , or whether they 're really concerned about something else . 
and then they say , if you give them the right to do this , then they 're going to take some other right away from you , 
i do n't believe that . 
i think that an employer has the right to ask you to do anything , 
do you keep a family budget 
i do n't use a family budget , 
my father who is very old has kept one his entire life , 
and i probably rebelled against it . 
i probably should have kept one . 
he keeps every penny that comes in and goes out on a very strict percentage . 
interesting . 
we sort of started doing it years and years ago 
and my husband started graduate school , when we were first married , 
and i sort of just got in the habit and never have gotten out of it . 
i can not really say that it 's a formal budget , 
it 's more just a fairly , accurate recording of what i spend , and what i think i am going to have to spend . 
i think it makes much more sense , 
and i have recently gotten out of debt and everything 
and i will probably start keeping a little better , track of it . 
i just spent whatever came in and , never knew what came in and what went out . about like the government runs . 
that sounds real similar . 
so , i think it is probably better to have at least a record 
but my dad was so precise , that if it said to spend eleven percent on something that 's what it was spent . 
and that was put over there 
and of course , he is from the depression , 
so it 's his life , 
but i think it would be smart if somebody would keep some sort of a plan that works for them . 
i think you are right , 
it must have been sort of interesting to us 
since i have pretty much kept my record books for the last fifteen years i can go back and look 
and it 's real fun to just see how things have changed over the years . , 
it is . 
for instance , 
i 'm a historian , 
and my father had kept them since nineteen twenty-seven 
i could not believe he did that , 
so , i took the ones from fifty-two on to the present , 
but , to have looked back into the twenties , thirties and forties , it would have been fantastic , to see that . 
as a matter of fact my mother was going through some things not long ago . 
i guess it must have been in the forties , because they had been married probably fifteen years at the time . 
and , it was just fascinating to see how little things cost , 
of course , it 's all relative , of course , 
i know . 
for a pair of shoes was like five dollars 
i know , 
even in nineteen sixty-three , 
i found a record that i had what i had paid for hotels . 
and a similar hotel in paris is two hundred dollars a night now . 
and i paid between four and five dollars , in nineteen sixty . 
is n't that , something . 
and that 's really crazy , 
cause that 's about thirty years ago . 
that is really something . 
. but , of course , it 's just what the market will bear . 
that 's true . 
if people will pay two hundred then why charge ten . 
that 's right . 
that 's just good old economics working . 
we have tried to instill some sense of budgeting in our kids , 
but our two children are just as unlike as night and day . 
and , our son could care less about a budget , 
and our daughter watches her pennies so closely , that she almost , just sounds like your father , 
she has everything planned so closely , that if , something goes wrong , it just throws her for a loop . 
one , 
they may flip flop when they , get to be older . 
the other one may be very careful , 
and she may marry somebody 
and , of course , it would be good because , it you marry somebody a little loose , then she will have that stability of watching . 
you should have one in the house . 
i think that is true , 
and , i think that is probably what happened in our house 
because i think my husband was not quite as good at saving and so on before we got married 
and i was really diligent about that . 
i was putting money aside before i was married when i was working out of college 
and that really paid off . 
because when time came for him to go back to graduate school , we were in fairly good shape financially as far as not having any major debts . 
that 's about the way it is here , 
if it had not been for my wife , i would have probably been in debtor 's prison , if we had one . 
but , what does you husband do now ? 
he is an engineer , 
he is an electrical engineer . and , in fact , went through many years of graduate school and got his p h d 
so we , had a lot of years of budgeting . 
you have , to do it when , you are in school . 
my wife is still in school getting her doctorate , 
i 'm working on my master 's degree now , 
so , in fact , this last year we had three , 
both of the children were in college , 
our son has a year left 
and our daughter graduated this year 
and i 'm just about ready to finish my master 's degree , 
so we have had once again a real lean year for us . 
i know . 
we had three , in college , plus my wife , 
so that was four . 
you know exactly what it 's like then . 
which you learn , 
i guess you figure that that is an investment that is really invaluable . 
that is the best one . 
with education you ca n't , take that away from you . 
that is right , 
it 's one that you can live through . 
and i , think that that 's the way that we looked at it in our beginnings when my husband was in graduate school that there was a light at the end of that tunnel that it was worth it to save and to not have something and in return know that something better was going to be at the end of it 
so it really makes it easier 
that 's true . 
but i have enjoyed talking with you , jerry . 
i have enjoyed talking with you , kathy . 
and , i wish i could hear more about your historian part of your life , because that sounds really fascinating to me . 
i am interested in that . 
if i had your address , i would send you , 
i am also in the travel business , 
i do tours 
and i can take some real great tours to europe . 
my husband , and i just went there last year , 
actually we did not take a tour , 
we were in england and , went to ireland and scotland and just rented cars and , did it on our own 
that sounds interesting . 
is your business in dallas then ? 
it 's here in dallas . 
in the quorum . 
i 'm jerry hammond 
and i 'm out at brookhaven college , 
so you could just holler at me there . 
you are kidding . 
i 'm going to be teaching at brookhaven in the fall . 
what is your last name ? 
kuenzer , k u e n z e r , 
k u e n , 
z e r . 
good , 
i have a couple of sections . 
i know zack miller real well . 
that 's the guy who hired me , 
. 
wonderful , 
i will look you up in the fall then . 
fantastic . 
it 's been a good type conversation . 
this is the season for vacations . 
and i guess for places i like to go , i enjoy going to the beach and being outdoors somewhere . 
someplace that 's very different than texas . 
maybe as the summer heat comes along i would sort of like going somewhere where it 's not so hot . and being able to be outside , enjoy outside activities , 
i enjoy playing tennis , 
so i like to have a tennis court there , 
the beach is great . 
a pool is great . 
where do you usually go ? 
let 's see , 
we have plans this year to drive up to colorado . 
and , we will be going to estes park , and colorado springs , 
one year we went to the southwest corner of colorado , into durango and north of the area there . 
that 's a nice place to visit . 
there 's a nice , nice train ride that goes up to the city of silverton where they used to do a lot of silver mining . 
and then actually , north of that is another town on a smaller scale than silverton . 
and then there 's lots and lots of mountains that are covered with boulders . 
so , i guess people jeep through that area 
and we did not have a chance to do that . 
but , i sure would like to go back there and do that again . 
we have not had a vacation in several years , 
so , be our first chance in awhile , 
we are going to go to destin , florida , which is a very nice beach area , if you are not familiar with it . 
but i have heard it 's wonderful . 
it 's gorgeous . 
we used to go quite a bit before i moved out here . 
we were closer and used to go almost every summer and , rent a condo there on the beach . 
there 's a lot of development of condominiums there on the beach front . 
so they are very , very large condos . 
and , they have quite a few rooms , 
so we will usually rent one for about a week or so . 
and the , beach is nice , 
go down . 
the beach is really nice , is n't it . 
it 's beautiful white sand and very clear blue green water , and a , lot of nice waves usually , 
sea shells . 
i am sorry . 
sea shells . 
there 's not as many sea shells along there , 
they have some , but , not so much . 
if you go further down you will usually find some , but not right in there . 
i do not know why it is , 
it seems not to have as many right there . 
but we enjoy it , 
we usually stay at the same place every year , 
and they are , like i say right on the beach . 
where do you stay ? 
my husband always wants to go to destin , 
we just have not gone that direction yet . 
it 's a place called jetty east j e t t y e a s t , 
and it 's called that because it 's at the very end of a jetty there , which is sort of at the end of this little , little point 
and it 's at the very end , 
it 's the last set of condominiums there , 
and it 's very nice . , 
it 's not very expensive , 
i think we are going to go with another couple and their kids . 
and we have a , three bedroom or two bedroom , uh , condominium , which will sleep quite a few about , six or eight . cause it 's got pull out couches and all that , 
and i think it 's going to cost us , per couple , about three hundred dollars for the week . 
. that 's nice . 
it really is , 
because it has got its own full size , kitchen and everything . 
and , this one has two baths , 
the one we got is on the beach side . 
we have got a beautiful view and balcony , 
it 's really a nice stay . 
in fact , we stayed there on our honeymoon , 
i had won a trip to the bahamas , but did not get to take it on our honeymoon time , 
so we instead went there and loved it just as much as if we had gone to the bahamas . 
the particular suite we had gotten was very nice 
and , so we decided to stay . 
but it 's a pretty nice place , 
you will need to try to go and , stay there sometime . 
it 's a little far from here , 
are you driving ? 
we are . 
we are , 
it will take a day and a half to get there , probably . 
the neighborhood that we live , they are switching to an alternate calendar this year , 
starting at the end of july , we will have two vacation weeks in october and two vacation weeks in march . 
so that will be an interesting turn on vacations for our family . 
what does that mean , alternate ? 
what it truly is supposed to mean is nine weeks of school , three weeks of vacation , nine weeks of school , three weeks of vacation . 
and in the summer would be more like a two month break . 
and they hope to boost the learning of the children . just the retention of the material for them . 
i see . 
kind of scattering the vacation throughout the year . 
anyway , so maybe within a year , we will see how that falls . 
we will head for florida , maybe in somewhat of an off season , instead of summer . 
that 's probably all we need to do today . 
thanks a lot . 
how do you view this whole subject ? 
are you one who feels like you have benefited from the change in roles in women ? 
or what do you think ? 
i think so . 
there 's been a lot of changes . 
i think there 's still a lot to be made , though . 
i think so . 
are you someone who works outside your home , 
i work for t i . 
have there been significant changes in the employment place , especially , at t i . 
has anything in particular changed that you have noticed ? during your time there . 
i guess there 's more women in what would be classified as a man 's job . 
what kind of work do you do ? 
i am a drafter . 
i am in a man 's job . 
but we have got more women in it now . 
there 's a lot of us in it . 
in years past in fact , even the word drafter has changed , 
because , it used to be they were draftsman . 
on the drawings that they mark up for us they put draftsman . 
and i want to scratch it out and put drafter . 
but i thought , i am , not going to do that . 
maybe not . 
i graduated from college with my bachelor 's degree in nineteen sixty-four . 
and i was a math major , which was a real rarity , among women at that time . 
so , i was in a lot of classes where i was either the only girl or one of just a very , few women in the class . 
so , that was a change 
and even i did not use my math in my work , 
i became a technical writer . 
but even so , there were very , very few women in technical writing . 
but , that has changed a lot . 
in recent years it has just really changed a lot . 
and i think that the one thing that i have seen is that more and more women are getting into management , 
but i think they have got a long way to go . 
there was something on t v the other day that said that fewer than one or two percent of the chair persons , of the board are women in this country . 
and i thought that that 's a pretty significantly small number . 
so , there are some strides to be made there . 
but i do not know , 
i think we have come a long way , actually , when i think about when things were like just when i was in high school , and how it is now for girls . 
and i guess my one bad thing is that i wish my mother had had some of those opportunities , because , i think she , would have succeeded in a lot of ways , that women were not able to succeed , in her , generation . 
. do you have children ? 
i was going to say do you have daughters . 
that 's always a good question . 
do you ? 
in fact , i have a daughter who just graduated in civil engineering , from college . 
wonderful . 
although there were some other women in her class , she was , one of the minorities , 
females in the class . 
so , she definitely entering into a male profession . 
but , for instance there is the organization the society of women engineers , 
so , that is recognized , as a place where women should be . 
but i do not know , 
you see it in church where more and more women are becoming ministers . in protestant congregations 
and it will be interesting to see if roman catholicism ever recognizes women in the role of priest . 
i do not know if you are roman catholic or what you know about that . 
i am not either , 
but that is one area that i can see might change , but i really doubt will change . 
not for a long time anyway . 
probably not . 
i was just trying to think . 
i know something . 
tell me what you think about this . 
the role of women in combat roles during the war ? 
because , i know that now there , they want the armed forces to recognize that women can serve in combat roles . 
and the only branch in the armed services that seems willing to do that is the air force . 
and i spoke because women were flying missions in the persian gulf war . 
but i know some of the other services do not think that women are capable of doing the job . 
it was real interesting , 
i was listening to some of the comments on television the other day about it , 
i do not know if he was a general or what his rank was , 
very high . 
he said it 's just a personal thing with me . 
i can not tell you why i feel this way , 
but i just would rather have a man doing some of these jobs than a woman . 
i thought , at least he was honest . 
but , that does not sit very well with a lot of folks , i am sure . 
there 's some men out there that are more feminine than most women . 
neil as far as i am concerned the only one area where a woman could not do it is if she just physically did not have the strength , to do something . 
because , mentally and emotionally , i think women can handle a job and , every bit as well . 
i do too . 
and if she wanted to go to combat , i do not see that they should stop her . 
i personally would not want to go 
i would not either . 
i agree 
but i am sure that there are women who would relish that kind of job . 
so i guess that should be taken into consideration , as well . 
this is an interesting topic , 
having a daughter who has gone into engineering , i sort of watched progress to see if she did anything differently than i did . 
she 's a lot more forthright about her opinions and , a little more assertive , than i think i was . 
so , that 's progress , i guess . 
i have enjoyed talking with you lisa , 
and have you talked with a lot of people in this project 
same here . 
i am not at home a lot . 
i am at work right now . 
i put my work number , 
but , at home the recorder gets my calls . 
usually , i am not there , 
but i probably talked to seven or eight people . 
that 's great , 
that 's good . 
i personally have not made any calls yet , myself , 
it never crosses my mind . 
but i enjoy receiving them . 
that 's good , 
that 's good , 
because i guess i placed all but one or two of my calls . and only because i going to make some money , 
our choir is doing this as a money raising project . 
we got the connection through a t i church member . 
and so we are doing it to raise money for a large project at church , 
so i feel like this is one way i can contribute that 's not too painful . 
financially painful , anyway . 
that 's wonderful . 
it 's just real nice that way 
so i thought , i will just get on the stick and do it . 
that 's great . 
i will say good-bye to you , 
but i have enjoyed the conversation . 
thanks for calling . 
thank you . 
pat . 
one of the interesting things that i have considered about the role change for women is that women of my generation , were trained and taught and brought up to be the leave it to beaver housewives . 
but we are not living in that world . 
we are certainly not , 
our families have changed . 
families , 
society has changed . 
everything has changed . 
and it makes you really concerned . 
i am glad i raised guys . 
let the world train them what to do . 
but characteristically the women have been in the past trained in the home . 
and i really would be at a loss to raise and train a girl . 
i think i would . 
even raising boys today is different though , because , they are expected to do so much more than they used to . 
used to be they would just go off to work and come home , 
and everything was done . 
and it 's a different world . 
it 's , some good , some bad , 
it 's nice that there 's a choice . 
i have chosen to stay at home , and raise my children . 
and i have a ten year old and a twelve year old . 
and i was a single parent for awhile and worked . 
and that was great , 
and i was able to provide for my children 
and that was wonderful . 
but i thank god everyday now that i have that choice . and that i am able to do things at home 
and i volunteer a whole lot . 
and that 's my job right now . 
and i love it . 
i really love it . 
i did very much the same thing until my boys got into high school and said mom , please do not be involved . 
then i went back to work . 
and that will come . 
i know that day will come , 
and i am looking forward to that too . 
but that 's a different phase in my life , 
and i am glad that i am able to do what i want to do right now . 
there 's a lot of things that have happened , actually , 
and it 's like oil on top of water , 
it changes 
but it 's never different in a lot of ways . 
women at one time did very heavy physical labor and , were expected to maintain a household . 
then as times changed as it is today , we do not do a lot of physical labor , even in housekeeping , and homemaking , 
you are not beating rugs , 
you are not doing laundry by hand and that kind of thing . 
and in that respect , we have to make ourselves become involved in physical exertion , 
or we really do develop some health problems . 
so , in that respect i am not so sure that the hard work of years past was not better for us than we are willing to admit . 
but do n't you think it 's that way with men too ? 
absolutely true 
that 's true with society , in general , 
but specifically the woman 's role , in society has changed . 
and medical reports tell us that women are developing diseases now that used to be predominately male diseases . 
heart disease was characteristic of men , 
now there 's almost equally predominant in women . 
and stress disorders and things like that . 
and , i think that that 's a symptom of our society , 
it 's a symptom that there 's a general illness that needs to be healed . 
i do not know what the healing process would be or what was causing the problem , 
i am not god . 
but , i do know that in raising my boys , i really did meet a lot of pressures saying you need to get them into music lessons , 
you need to get them , into sports 
you need to get them into this , 
they need to be busy 
and they need to be active . 
and i fought all of those things , 
i said if those boys want to be involved in that they will come to me 
and they will say mom this is important to me , 
i want to do it , 
otherwise , i will guard their ability to have quiet time . 
it 's funny , 
i refused to cram their lives full . 
it 's funny , 
it 's funny 
i was really looking forward to summer , thinking we are going to have some time off . 
and that 's the way it is with a woman too . 
and it 's been real busy . 
and actually , today is really as far as i am concerned , the first day of summer . because we have had so much going on the past few weeks . 
and you are right , 
that 's how society has changed , 
the family has changed , 
we find ourselves doing things that , we never did as kids . 
i do not remember , being involved in things like this . 
it 's different , 
i do not know , 
only time will tell whether it 's better or worse , than the way we grew up . 
but it 's just very different . 
of course . 
i just am very much a believer in quiet personal time . 
if you do not have the time to talk to yourself , who are you going to talk to . 
and i guarded my children 's rights for that 
and i think that that 's one of the things that women are sacrificing that they should not do . 
they are sacrificing their time with themselves . 
there 's nothing wrong with sitting and being bored , if you thinking internally , and you are , working on your own self . 
you are finding out who you are . 
but is not that difficult to do when you are working full time and have to come home and prepare a meal and , get homework done , 
and where do you find the time . 
. in the first place it 's not your homework , 
it 's your children 's homework . 
and i was always very careful to be there only when they came to me and asked me for help , 
i helped them with exactly what they asked for 
and that 's all . 
that 's a part of the problem that women have always had 
and that is accepting responsibility for things that really are other people 's responsibilities . 
that 's very true . 
and then that way , we have not changed in , hundreds of years , have we . 
that 's right . 
that way husbands are crippled , 
they are intellectual cripples , 
and so are children . 
they do not know how to think for themselves and be responsible , for themselves . 
i do not know why god made women brilliant . 
did n't he though . 
but i do not know 
they tend to look at the mother as the one who solves all problems . 
they , are all things to all people , 
that 's very true . 
and that 's never changed . 
that 's very true . 
as a matter of fact i was talking to a friend yesterday , who said she has a new policy in her home 
i am having a problem with another member of the family , 
she said i have taken a new stance , 
and i say , no , 
i will not . 
you work it out for yourself . 
and it 's amazing , she said , , 
and they suck me into these arguments and , these conversations 
that 's right . 
and i am supposed to be the one who is going to fix it all and soothe everybody . 
and she said i am not doing it anymore . 
i think that 's one of the things that we have today that is very useful , 
and i think every woman ought to deal with it or , ought to at least be exposed to it , 
and that is mediation training . 
we are not talking about strikes or things 
we are talking about mediators who get involved in family crises , parents and children , husbands and wives boss and employee . those kinds of things . interpersonal mediation , 
what were you saying ? 
do you work around children when you work ? 
not at all . 
i work with computers . 
with computers . 
but you have friends that have children . 
i have some friends that have children , 
not that many actually . 
what is child care like in new york ? 
i do not really know , 
excuse me , 
too much about child care in new york . 
does the company you work for have , child care on premises for , employees ? 
excuse me one second . 
not at all , 
in fact my situation is a little bit strange , 
i was a student for many years , and then graduated and went and worked in france for awhile . 
and , i , have just come back and was doing consulting work . 
so i am just taking a little bit of time off right now . 
a sabbatical . 
i hope you can stay as long as possible with it . 
hopefully i can do some consulting work at home . 
that would be wonderful . 
i 'll be able to spend the time with my daughter , and not have to worry too much about child care . 
but i might start to go crazy with it too . 
i miss the intellectual stimulation . 
but at the same time it would break my heart to give her to a stranger right now . 
i think it does when they are real little 
and they are changing every day , 
and you just miss the little things , 
i do not think i would put her in day care for joint , situation right now , unless it was one other child with a person . 
i would not want her to be in a large day care situation so young . because i think a little infant just does not get the stimulation they need . 
that 's right . 
maybe if i needed to work part time four hours a day , i might do that , cause you should get enough stimulation from you the rest of the time . 
but i just think that when there 's two year olds running around , the care givers are going to pay attention to the two year olds . 
that 's right . 
and only when the infant screams , are they going to go there , 
that 's right . 
and if not , the infant is going to lay in the crib all day , and maybe have a mobile above it to play with . 
and i play with her most of the time she is awake 
and i think that is so important . 
it is important for the bonding that they do it , with the mother . 
our oldest grandson , when he was eighteen months old went into a montessori , day care system . 
and they took infants starting at six weeks , 
and they have a program that was devised by this montessori person 
and a certain type of stimulations 
and there 's times of day even when the child is awake that they lay quietly and look at certain things 
they deliberately keep the room not real bright . 
and , they have different things they will put them down on the floor , 
and of course , they never have more than five , 
and they will put them down on the floor 
and i think one of them was a little mirror 
and some were just different objects that had a definite purpose for kids , 
and there 's something about their eyes . 
how old is she ? 
she 's two months now , nine weeks . 
and she 's just drastically moving her eyes from one side to another and things like that . 
and she 's just started that yesterday or the day before , 
so every days are different . 
and i think child care for infants is much harder than when they are older , 
and i will probably be going back to work around january , whereas she will be about , eight or nine months old . 
a little older . 
it is because that 's when they are clinging to mama , 
so you might have a real problem with that . 
i think it hurts the parents to leave when the child is crying , 
so it would be ideal if you could get somebody in so you are not really leaving the child in a strange place . 
we are just going to have , to see how things work out . 
but that 's unusual . 
but i am trying to leave her a fair amount , even at this young age , with her grandparents , just to , go to a movie and things like that . so that she is used to other people taking care of her . 
is it your parents or your husband 's parents ? 
my parents , 
my husband 's parents are in france . 
so , it 's a little bit harder 
she 's met them already . 
not that she will remember them , 
but she 's met them . 
i have three grandchildren , 
another one coming in september , 
if they were where i could not get my hands on them , i am afraid i would probably go crazy . 
i like that , 
are they all nearby ? 
or you can set up your work program and your husband 's so that one of you is there all the time . 
that 's wonderful for the child . 
if i work part time that might be doable . 
and if you do decide to go with child care , you really need to look at what your options are and look at what they offer , 
drop in at times that are unexpected . 
right now the situation is so tight at many places , that it 's even hard to have a choice . 
people before they get pregnant are finding child care for the kids . 
and i just find that incredible . 
and my sister-in-law is going to have a baby very , very soon 
and she is intending to stay home with the baby . 
and maybe do some free lance type work at home . 
and so , if i go back to work on a part time basis , i am hoping i can leave my daughter with her . because , , my daughter will be about six months older than hers . 
that would be wonderful . 
it will be a little rough when she is a very , very little infant , 
but when she is a month or so , my sister-in-law has had lots and lots of experience dealing with baby-sitting for large families . 
and so she might be able to do it a couple of hours a day 
and we might even be able to do it on a trade off basis . that i watch , their baby when they want to go out to dinner or to movies or whatever , or if she wants an afternoon off . even if she wants an afternoon just to work . and not be bothered , 
we might be able to exchange that way . 
and so we will just have to see how things work out . 
i do too . 
they hire a couple of people 
and parents come down to supervise or , whatever . 
really well trained people . 
and have some kind of real good program , set up so that when you go you can be assured that if there 's an emergency that person in charge knows c p r or first aid 
and have some kind of program set up , like you say , to stimulate the kids , or educate them in some manner . and have the right toys and the right setting and have , an organized type of program set up so that the kids have a schedule , 
that 's real important to little kids . 
my daughter does not seem to be on a real schedule yet , 
and it 's probably my fault , because i do not have a real schedule now . 
she 's been staying up late at night 
and sleeping late in the mornings and things is just fine by me . 
and that 's a problem , 
society is geared to a day person 
i have another friend whose brother and his wife have done this , 
they stay up until all hours of the night . 
i am the product of as much the changing roles of women as anyone , 
my mother and i were really , first generation divorce in our family . 
my mother was divorced in nineteen fifty-seven , when i was seven years old . 
and , i was the first one , of anyone that anyone had ever known , to have a divorce . 
of course , now fifty percent divorces in the united states 
my mother was treated very badly by a lot of family members , especially from my father 's side of the family , 
and also we were ostracized by his family , 
basically we just kind of dropped off the face of the earth . 
and , they all felt that there was never an issue that my father was the cause of the reason for the split up , even though he had impregnated another woman and forced the divorce . 
it was always my mother 's fault , 
she was not sufficient , 
she just was not good enough . 
what was wrong with her , was she not attractive enough , 
did she not take good enough care of her man to keep his interest . 
it was that kind of an attitude . 
that 's too bad . 
it was too bad , 
it was really rough . 
that 's sad . 
it really is . 
so that 's so changing , 
some of the changing roles of women in that respect , i have been a product of . 
i was first generation going to college in my family . 
first , my mother had always had a quote career , but always a career in a secretarial position . 
she did rise to the highest position that a woman could rise to in a secretarial profession in des moines , iowa . 
that 's wonderful . 
she was a secretary to a federal judge . 
and it was a lifetime appointment for her as well as for him . 
so , that was a really high status position . 
that 's wonderful . 
she made over thirty thousand , a year . 
that speaks , well of your mother . 
she had high standards . 
hard driving lady with a steel rod up her back . 
bless her heart . 
so i went to college and now since have completed two master 's degrees 
and i am the director of music in a church . 
challenges . 
challenges that have to do with my sex . 
for instance i am just not taken as seriously at professions , as many of the men who are doing the same job i do . 
and the choir members treat me differently because i am a woman , 
they expect me to be more motherly , 
they question my authority more than they ever would a man . 
and i have experience with this , because i work both as a director of music and also as an associate under a man . 
so i am pretty aware of what goes on in the church . 
i am done talking . 
do you want to talk ? . 
i think that you carried forth your subject matter very well nickie . 
and i can relate to that , 
i think it 's the image that the woman has in the world , as the lesser of the two . 
always . 
and i think things are changing , 
but the changing is taking a long time longer than we would like it to take . 
and i think we are progressing at a snail 's pace , 
but we are progressing . 
so , that 's the main point is that we are going ahead . 
and i think that in the long term that women are going to be able to have the recognition that they deserve . 
and men a lot of them have , come around and have seen , the error of their ways . 
but there are a lot of die-hards out there that will never change . 
so we have to face that reality also . 
i have never been able to figure out why they can not ever change , why they can not bend why they can not just accept competent women , 
i have never been able to understand that . 
i guess it 's fear . 
the ones that go along with that , they are sure of themselves . 
and they know that they can be on the same level . 
and they do not have any ego problems that they are fighting . 
and i think that we are going to be on par with them in salary and in recognition , in the long term . 
and what i would like to see happen futuristically , is what we are discussing , is that we each have our jobs in life , and that we should recognize that . and that we should support each other . 
and i think our problems would be fewer , if we supported each other . and just looked at each other as equals and none lesser , because we are equal . 
men have a lot of trouble with that though . 
in their own peer relationships , they do not treat themselves equal , 
and so it 's really difficult for them to treat women as equals . 
they are really much more comfortable with somebody being the boss and somebody being the follower . 
it seems that they are more comfortable that way . 
and i do not know if it 's a militaristic point of view , 
somebody can not be colonel 
and everybody else is infantry , 
but it 's just really interesting to me . 
i think . 
but , when he gets angry , it 's always over control issues , 
it 's always over power issues , 
it 's always , you said you were going to do something and you did not do it . as if he is the boss and i am the slave . 
those are the only issues we ever fight about . 
i think it 's just difficult for men to accept women equally , 
even if they want to , they are more comfortable when somebody is the boss . 
dictatorships are real efficient . 
i guess we would have to go back to the way that the lord made us . 
and the women when they are married , they are to be subjective to their husbands . 
and i believe that strongly . 
but i think that they should be in harmony with what they are , with what the subject matter is . 
and i think the issue should be settled before there 's a conflict . 
and i think that can happen in a very wonderful way . 
and if we , men and women , would do as the bible said , that we would esteem each other higher than ourselves . 
can you picture that ? 
if your husband did that to you , and you did that to your husband , you would always be trying to please each other and not yourself . 
it 's true . 
and that 's really the divine answer , and the right answer . 
so that would be a beautiful relationship . 
it would be . 
and i think there are some people that have done that , 
and i have seen it . 
and it 's just marvelous , 
and i am just in awe to see this , 
what movies have you seen recently , valerie ? 
let 's see , 
the last one we saw was thelma and louise . 
we have n't seen that one yet . 
do n't bother . 
it was n't that good . 
from a woman 's point of view it was very chauvinistic as far as women go . 
it was entertaining , 
but 
i do n't think the general audience would go for it . 
the most recent one that my wife and i have seen was the city slicker . 
how was that ? 
that was excellent . 
it was just a really funny movie . 
that is one i 've been dying to see . 
at the same time , it had a story line about people trying to find themselves . 
there were parts that were sad . 
it just ran the gamut of emotion . 
but it was just all around entertaining . 
how long did that movie run ? 
it 's still on , to the best of my knowledge . 
but time wise , how long , 
was it two hour 
i think it 's less than two hours . 
we rented one recently that seemed to go on forever . 
that always seems to happen when you rent them . 
but this one , it was fairly long . 
i 'm guessing probably an hour and forty-five minutes , maybe . 
but excellent acting by billy crystal and bruno kirby , 
was it good . 
jack palance had an excellent part in there as the old cowboy . 
so we really enjoyed that . 
i 'm looking forward to seeing that one . 
that was next on our list , 
i think that i can highly recommend that movie to see . 
good deal 
good deal . 
do you rent movies very often , 
we generally rent a couple a week . 
in order to get a decent movie to have on a weekend , you 've got to rent it on thursday . 
they get taken up at the store , 
that 's exactly right . 
we will rent two or three movies on thursday 
and with luck , you 'll have one or two that are good . 
most of them are a coin flip . 
, we do n't get out as much as we like . 
we have two children , 
so we occasionally get out to the movies 
but it 's a fun thing to do to get out and be entertained for once . 
quite frequently , we have our grandchildren on the weekends 
and we 'll try to rent something that they can see as well as something else that we can see 
and generally try to stay in the at least p g range . 
what ages are they ? 
have you found trouble finding movies for them 
the oldest is nine , 
the youngest is three . 
he does n't really pay attention . 
the five year old does n't have the attention span , either . 
but the nine year old will watch anything that 's on t v . 
they have been doing that . 
we 've been waiting for a good movie out this summer for the kids to see . 
the last one they saw was home alone 
and they enjoyed that , 
but i missed that one . 
my husband took the kids to see that one 
my wife took the kids to see that one , 
but we can generally find something at the store for them to watch . 
that 's a good deal . 
we saw this movie , 
presumed innocent was the one we rented last weekend . 
let me think if i have rented that one . 
harrison ford . 
harrison ford 
and , how does the story line go ? 
he is a prosecuting attorney 
and a woman prosecutor in there is murdered 
we have n't seen that one . 
and he 's trying to find it , 
but , course , it 's one of these with a twist where it looks like he 's the one that wound up killing her 
and it 's an extremely long movie . 
it 's over two hours long . 
which , 
my wife she likes the suspense movies . 
i enjoy them to a degree . 
i think that 's the one i wanted to pick up the other day , 
and then my husband was n't going to be able to watch it with me , 
so i thought i better save that one for another day . 
save that for another day . 
because i think he 'd like that one . 
you enjoyed that one , then . 
it 's something i think you would enjoy , 
that 's a good one to put on the list . 
it 's like most suspense movies , 
it was on t v recently , 
fatal attraction . 
it 's one that , once you 've seen it once you really ca n't see it again 
you know all the story and who did what and when it happened , 
so once you seen one that 's a suspenseful type movie like that , then it 's not good for a second watching particularly . 
at least i do n't think so . 
i do n't think too many of them are anymore . 
it 's a shame , 
i do n't know , 
we 've watched weekend at bernie 's any number of times . 
i know . 
it 's just slapstick comedy . 
sit there and laugh , 
my wife ca n't understand it , 
but we like bill and ted 's excellent adventure which is another funny one . 
we 've heard about that one , 
but we have n't seen that one either 
so it sounds like you and your grandson like the same kinds of movies . 
we like to laugh . 
i have a theory . 
i like movies for entertainment . 
i do n't want to go away depressed from watching a movie . 
i agree , 
i agree . 
life 's depressing enough . 
that 's for sure . 
i 've certainly enjoyed talking with you . 
you , too , jim . 
thanks for punching in 
have a nice weekend . 
i hope you see a good movie soon . 
hal what 's crime like in dallas ? 
it depends where in dallas you are . 
there are certainly parts of town i would not want to live in . 
because it 's the situation 
it is very location dependent 
i live on the outskirts of baltimore 
and we live right outside the city 
and our neighborhood is pretty much working class people , though i 'm in graduate school , 
i live here because it 's close to the university . 
it 's really funny , 
the only crime we really see is just the kids being malicious . 
and i think most of that is because their parents are n't around . 
that make sense ? 
what they call the latchkey children . 
something like that . 
or fathers are just missing , 
so there 's no consistency there in the home or whatever . 
there 's no one to tell them what 's right and what 's wrong . 
sort of on my end is more of the upper middle class 
not that we do n't have a certain amount of local problems 
but on the other hand we get the affect of the city 
and the main crimes within the suburb here are the theft crimes . a small number of assaults , 
but then you go into dallas 
and they are , unfortunately having murders at a rate greater than one a day . 
i think we 're about the same in baltimore . 
though washington is close by 
and they experience a lot more . 
i think they definitely have more problems in the area . 
what do you think can prevent crime ? 
unfortunately there are often these correlations that are inverse of what they should be like wherever there are more criminals , there are more policemen 
but that 's which came first . 
basically the problem is in the society and the society 's views 
i think , i agree with you there . 
because it just was not something back in the sixties that i even had to worry about . 
but i think that there is a lot in the society where things have changed , 
so it 's effected all of us . 
i think the drug culture definitely is one of the main problems . 
our mayor in baltimore is one of the people that goes on national television and says they should legalize drugs . because it would eliminate the violence and the market the hidden market of the drugs and everything that goes along with it . 
that make sense ? 
he 's one of the big proponents of that . 
and he was a district attorney before , and a prosecutor before becoming mayor . 
it 's a different viewpoint . 
in a sense i have real mixed feelings on that 
it would certainly be an interesting test 
what happens if we lose worse . 
and i think if i look back fifty or a hundred years i 'd say back then there were the opium dens 
but the thing is , if somebody ruined their life society did n't try to then save themselves from it , 
they let this person who had ruined it die or whatever . 
they probably became weakened physically and other things to the point that their life expectancy was real short , 
but now we tend to believe somewhere in the health care system otherwise , we need to take care of people even if they have physically ruined themselves . 
they have induced it themselves . 
that 's true . 
i would certainly like to see a real test of making drugs real cheap to see if when you make them available people then do n't use them . 
i think they did that in alaska . that actually , alaska just recently legalized marijuana . 
but i never heard results or anything like that , 
plus it really could n't be a good test because alaska 's so different than every other part of the country . 
but that was interesting , 
i do n't know , 
the drug culture , 
i see it with the kids in the neighborhood just stealing things , not thinking anything wrong with it . 
and , of course , i 'm a baby of the old school 
but , it bothers me from the fifties on , 
not that i 'd remember that much from the fifties 
but basically we have so much more of the something for nothing mentality . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
we worked hard for everything . 
that 's very true . 
there were the sixty-four thousand dollar question shows in the fifties , 
but nowadays , there 's so much on tv where people seem to have the idea they can get something for nothing . 
of course i work for lawyers a lot 
and i see , unfortunately , we have this whole mentality that somehow there are these pots of money out there that you can sue somebody and there 's a million dollars you can have for mental duress or whatever . 
in europe , they seem to have mentality , 
and drunk driving is a good one , 
is that people are well indoctrinated in their society that drunken driving is unacceptable . 
and 
if you 're going to drink you better have your designated driver . 
in this country , and for example with alcohol or with drugs we do n't seem to understand how to handle it as a society to say it is okay under these circumstances , but if you step outside these bounds , the punishment is extreme . 
and we mean it . 
i think that , the drunk driving has actually , just caught on . 
my father was hit by a drunk driver when i was in high school 
and that was an awful three years afterwards of recovery and the difficulties and everything we did 
and the guy went free because this was twelve years ago thirteen years ago , 
his father was even , the police chief of the town . 
so there was no repercussion at all other than insurance , 
but he was uninsured . 
so our insurance paid for everything , 
but it was a very difficult time 
and then later my brother and i were picked up by the police for questioning because this fellow had bought a new car 
and somebody had taken a baseball bat to it and broke all his windows and his lights and dented it everywhere , 
and they came and questioned us . 
but , that kind of shows how our attitude toward drinking and driving was misplaced for years 
it was an acceptable social behavior . 
very much so . 
those are some important points . 
what does your city have for gun control if anything ? 
we just voted in strong gun control here in the state of maryland . 
i guess because i work quite a bit with lawyers that i find a lot of things are so specialized that i 'm not sure , 
and i look at it more from the civil side of things , 
they can find guilt or innocence 
i agree , too . 
i do n't think the jury should be the ones that put the sentencings down . 
i think the judges should , 
or even a panel of lawyers if it got to that point . might be better than just regular civil people . not knowing exactly what things are , from murder on up to tax stuff . 
i 've been on a few juries 
and as a say , i tend to be around civil cases because i 've been an expert witness some , 
and many matters are so complicated that it 's so hard to come up with the fair value or the fair sentence 
and one thing that you get if you have some expertise is the range of possible values or terms or how heinous was the crime . 
when i only do something one , two or three times i 'm hardly an expert on it , 
and most juries over a period of five or ten years you might sit on three . 
and so how do you relate as to whether this particular armed robbery was worth five years or twenty-five . 
some people just sit on them once in their lifetime if they 're that lucky sometimes . or whatever the case may be . and may not have any idea of what the standard punishment would be for it . 
and they may have some different idea , 
it might be more important for them to put a sentencing down that was longer that the punishment did n't fit the crime . 
or not long enough or whatever the case may be . 
i think the judges do have better knowledge of it . 
the only thing i worry about sometimes is if you get somebody in there that has a name , that is the defendant and sometimes , might have more pull , which that does happen . 
we ca n't say it does n't , because it does happen . 
not everybody has the right morals sometimes . 
people can be paid off politically or whatever the case may be 
and sometimes that 's not real fair either , though 
one of the others things that gets me on the juries is that often in the newspaper , i tend to hear two things that go on . 
one is , you often see in the headlines the big numbers . 
and many of those get overturned or get reduced in terms of sentences , or get changed by a judge or an appeals court 
and that never makes the press 
and so , when you or i as an individual gets on a jury we tend to have certain mental images of what 's what because we see the headlines , 
and we do n't have , again , a lot of knowledge , 
so we do n't know what is really going on , what is really the range of sentences or awards that are actually in the end applied . 
also what i do n't think is fair , either , is when you have a rapist , come in , 
but , that does n't make any sense to me either . 
i know it 's hard to prove rape and whatnot 
it 's embarrassing and all this other stuff 
and they 're put on like , they were the ones that caused it or whatever , 
but , to me , when you do the crime , then you should pay for whatever you did , 
and you should n't be able to go on the lesser charge . 
i do n't think that 's right because all 's that 's going to do is say , that was a breeze , 
i can go out and do it again and have the same thing happen . 
that 's not right . 
that 's where the role of juries is restricted 
and , i 'm not sure i 'd want to change that aspect of it , 
one is , it 's restricted in the sense that , juries only decide the charges that are actually brought 
if it 's first degree rape , second degree rape or whatever , they only get to decide on that , 
this person has been charged with first degree rape , 
and you can decide guilt or innocence on that . 
such like , maybe in murder they get to choose whether it 's premeditated or one or two of the lesser degrees . 
it 's what information is presented 
and i do n't know that juries have a right to know more because in a sense we call those safeguards , 
but often juries hear only a fraction of the story when they have to decide guilt or innocence . 
somebody thinks it had , because they 've got it there . 
so the two lawyers are the ones that have all the information . 
do n't they ? 
the oath is to tell the truth , 
they do n't want the whole truth . 
they only put part of it . 
because stories look very different when you hear different parts of the truth . 
that 's just like that old witness game , 
it 's a game kids play , too , 
but somebody did it , just for your train of thought where they showed something 
there were four people , 
and your occupation is teaching ? 
i 'm a substitute teacher . 
substitute teacher . 
is this pat i 'm talking to now ? 
it is , 
it is . 
i 'm a substitute teacher , in the same school system we both work in . 
i was just trying to make an introduction , here . 
and i have n't told you i 'm going to be at a different school this year . 
i 've just gotten another job at an elementary library at barron . 
i bet you may dress differently , then , for that . 
not really . 
every day i 've got to read to kindergartners , 
so i 'm going to be down on the floor with them . 
i 've got about forty kindergartners i 'm going to be working with every day for a half hour . 
so i 'll probably be wearing slacks as often as i do because if i 'm going to be down on the floor messing with them , i 'm not going to wear nice nylons and dresses . 
what i wear sometimes depends on how cold i think the school might be or what room i might be in since i 'm a sub , and have different rooms to go to . and always carry a sweater . 
of course , you 've been at clark enough that you know it 's always cold . 
but , you do n't know at some of the other schools you go to unless you 've been there . 
you try to layer , so you can add or take off . 
subtract . 
i think some of the dress codes are different at different schools . 
that 's one of the things i ask about whether she would allow slacks 
and she said she does n't have a problem with that , 
she just did n't like sloppy dressing . 
and i said , that was okay . 
basically , i wear slacks year round except about once a week i try to wear a skirt . 
and in the winter i maybe wear longer sleeve shirts than i do in the summer . and add a heavier jacket or wear jackets more in the winter than i do in the summer . 
and for me sometimes , they even have dress up days 
or they have spirit week that you wear your different outfits 
and you have to have the color for that particular school if you choose to participate in spirit week . 
and one might be a hat day where you have to come up with some sort of hat . 
and you never know that , though sometimes when you 're going in , do you ? 
but because i sort of stick to several schools i 'm usually aware that there might be a spirit week going on and might remember to do it . 
on what , 
thursday . 
it might be thursday for the high schools 
and it may be friday for the senior high schools . 
so that would kind of give you a clue , i guess 
and sometimes you get the long term stuff 
so you 're aware ahead of time of what 's going on . 
and i do n't know , 
i think about the dress code they have for the kids . 
they put one on the parents , or the teachers and say the men have to wear ties 
and there can be no blue jeans worn 
because some of the teachers i know wear dress up jeans , not sloppy looking jeans but tapered jeans that they 've had dry cleaned so they have got the crease 
and they 'll wear it with a nice top . 
and , i do n't know that that looks that bad . 
but , if you 're going to tell the kids they have to dress up , i guess you can tell the teachers that , too . 
i think the elementary school teachers , or maybe even the middle school teachers dress a little fancier than some of the high school teachers . 
but i think it varies , just so much . 
anything can go . 
and you can see in some of the departments in some of the schools , like history at clark , they 're all pretty fancy . 
but they 're just sort of into clothes , 
and then there 's other departments that are n't . 
and they 'll just wear your common , ordinary whatever you might say , 
there 's a couple teachers up there that do dress up more than others . 
and so you try to maybe follow those if you know you 're going there , 
you do n't want to dress too tacky because you 're going to be in the same room with them . 
course , it 's a standing joke when the men come in a tie and a suit coat , you say have you got a job interview today 
or there 's usually something going on that , would , cause that to happen 
or you 're going to be observed . 
and i do n't know how a coach would feel that teaches health or english , or whatever that they had to wear a tie . 
they go around in their little coaching shorts or parachute pants . 
and a t-shirt . 
that i did n't ever understand . 
we 've got coaches that teach health for five periods and then have athletics sixth period 
at vines , the coaches do n't do that . 
they dress pretty good , i would say 
and then they go to their coaching 
and they put their shorts on there . 
change then . 
that 's what i would think . 
that 's what i would think . 
but , they do n't wear their sweat pants or anything . 
they dress like any other teacher would in a classroom situation , not in p e . 
course , we had one coach , one period he 'd teach p e and the next period health and then a period of p e 
those i can understand . 
and that 's hard . 
so he just left warm-ups on , 
but , 
and i do n't know if they make uniforms the thing for the kids , 
i guess the teachers will have to follow suit with a dark skirt and a white top 
i do n't think we 'll ever get to that . 
you do n't think so . 
i do n't think . 
i think we 're going the opposite direction . 
they 've had uniforms for years , 
i do n't really know if they still do . 
some of them they do 
and it 's not at some of the private schools , 
it certainly makes it easier to dress . 
but even there 's a couple public schools in dallas where the kids wear uniforms and the teachers dress in accordance with that . 
it 's certainly cheaper and easier in the long run that you do n't have to be concerned about your wardrobe . 
i think it would make a difference at school . 
i do n't think we should be spending time saying somebody 's wearing torn clothing or wearing shorts , too short 
it 's a lot of trouble to take care of that . 
and , of course , the kids say , then why bother , 
just let me wear what i want . 
and yet we ca n't to that either . 
i 'd like to see them go to not necessarily a uniform , but saying that they 've got to wear a button down shirt , 
that would alleviate any t-shirts with sayings on them . 
but if they could wear a button-down shirt and a pair of dark slacks and they could buy them anywhere they wanted 
but i doubt that that will come about . 
and then the girls , 
just , 
not in plano . 
not , 
but they said in the dallas schools that that helps their educational process there . 
i think it does . 
it takes their minds off of trying to compete . 
highland park 's thinking about going that route . 
and then i think that 's going to push teachers to dress a lot more professionally than they do . 
i do n't think a lot of teachers are very professional 
did you go to college ? 
i did . 
and where did you go ? 
i went to a small liberal arts college in virginia . 
it was sweeper college of about seven hundred and fifty students . 
i had gone to a small school growing up , 
and a lot of my friends went to university of michigan 
but my parents were retiring in south carolina when i graduated and were looking for a southern school 
and also u of m seemed overwhelming in size 
and what about you ? 
i went to the university of minnesota . 
you 're from the midwest , too . 
i am , 
where do you live now ? 
i live in texas now . 
where are you ? 
i 'm in texas . 
i 'm in austin . 
my brother 's in austin . 
he lives lakeway . 
he had moved , 
we 're in plano . 
i 'm familiar with plano . 
i visited once or twice . 
austin is so pretty . 
i really like it . 
i love it . 
i love it . 
i really do . 
and your daughter is going to be a sophomore . 
that 's correct . 
i have two daughters , 
but my oldest will be a sophomore . 
because you live in austin , is she thinking about the university of texas ? 
she has her heart set on u t . 
and having gone to the university of minnesota , i know what a big university is like . 
and one thing that i did this summer , which i thought might benefit both my daughters is , my youngest daughter got involved in band , 
and baylor has a band camp . 
so she went for a week , 
and it was overnight , 
and they lived in the dorms . 
and i thought this would expose both of them to what it 's like on a smaller college campus . 
and my oldest one just was n't impressed at all with the idea of a small school . 
so i still think the exposure was good . 
what were your selection criteria . 
did you base it on what you wanted to major in or what you would feel comfortable with or what you could afford 
or there 's all of these areas to look at in making the decision . 
and those were several that we did consider . 
my parents certainly did n't push but wanted me to look in the south 
when i say small , my graduating class had eighteen in it . 
and so they suggested that i might want a smaller school because i was used to a lot of one-on-one or small group situations . 
definitely . 
and i did pick it because at the time i was interested in majoring in biology 
and i also wanted to spend one year studying in europe . 
i had had an a f s student from germany live with us our senior year 
how exciting . 
and we just thought that would be a wonderful thing 
and i ended up majoring in french . 
one of the reasons i picked the school was because they had a strong science department . 
they also had a strong language department 
and i 'd always loved working with children . 
and i found that i could n't fit everything in , 
but because i had had a fair amount of french going in i was able to do my year 's study in france and able to take a lot of the other courses that interested me . 
that worked out very well for you . 
several of the things you mentioned were the things that our son has talked a lot about texas a and m . 
but he thinks he wants to be a writer 
and i do n't think that , 
then he should come to u t . 
and really his graduating class will probably be in the neighborhood of eight hundred and fifty to a thousand . 
and so he 's used to a bigger size 
large classes . 
and because my brother is there he would have family , close by . 
so there are advantages . 
because i had so many friends who did go from our small school to university of michigan , which was so large 
and they really felt like they were numbers . 
i went from a large high school to a large university 
and i definitely felt like i was a number . 
it is a different feeling . 
but that was my only option . 
i just really could n't look at anything else . 
that was the one and only thing i could really afford other than a junior college , which i did n't want to do . 
so that 's how my decision was made . 
especially today with the cost of college . 
that is a major consideration 
and i do feel fortunate that texas has so many good schools . 
and when you mentioned that , we have friends who have children there who just love it . 
and for a private school it is not as expensive as most are 
and it is a smaller size 
and i do feel like there are a lot of options . 
even this year , jay had an aptitude test , 
he hopes to be a writer . 
he thinks that 's what he 'd like to do , 
but he 's really strong in math and science , too , 
and we keep encouraging him to keep an open mind . 
does your daughter know what she 'd like to do ? 
she has interests that are just going in all directions . 
bethany , let 's be real . 
she really is pretty unfocussed at this point . 
and , i do n't know , 
she 's taken a lot of french , 
and she may end up doing something with that . 
and i am a single mom , 
and i made the mistake of dropping out of college to get married . 
so i 'm trying to have my children not make the same mistake . 
and i 'm showing them if you 're strong in math and science , kiddos , this is one area where women can make some decent money . 
i 'm kind of really putting the practical application and saying , yet , do something that you enjoy . 
by all means , go get that piece of paper . 
do you just have one son ? 
i see . 
it sounds like he 's got some really good strong ideas of what he wants to do . 
and , of course , there is still time , 
but he 's beginning to feel that , as much as he enjoys writing , he wonders if he can make a living at it . 
the weather certainly has been hot 
and it 's been humid . 
it 's not really late into the summer , 
but the humidity has hung around all of june . 
are you native to this area ? 
i grew up in michigan , 
but i 've been in texas for fifteen years . 
but , i know the summers get hot 
this humidity has just really hung on there . 
last year was so strange having all those heavy , heavy rains in april 
and this year we really did n't have heavy rains until may . 
kind of pushed the season back a little farther 
and now it 's kind of lingering with kind of still a bit of humidity 
and it just tried to rain , 
i was coming in from my car just a few minutes ago 
and it was trying to rain which seems strange to have it raining in july . 
normally we do n't have too much humidity or , rainy time when it 's past june . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
it 's really august that it happens . 
you get those great big cracks in the ground where it 's been so dry 
and it just gets so dry 
and , the earth opens up . 
i can remember the first year i moved here 
and it did n't rain , 
i moved here in late august 
and it did n't rain from august until december 
and , i went home and told it just does n't rain in texas . 
it was great after growing up in michigan 
and every day was cloudy , 
almost every day was cloudy 
and you sort of forget how much it did rain 
and coming here 
and then it did n't rain , 
it was just wonderful . 
i lived in ohio mainly . 
i lived in pontiac just a little while before i came down here 
and so many times when you were trying to schedule outdoor activities , you just never knew if it was going to be a go or not because of the weather . 
it might rain on your little parade . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
and here it was like , pretty much you could schedule some activity outside anytime 
and you really did n't have too much of a chance of it getting rained out . 
you could pretty much do whatever you wanted to do . 
that 's right . 
what part of michigan were you living in ? 
i grew up in dearborn which is a suburb of detroit . 
you probably know where that is because i know where pontiac is , 
what brought you down here ? 
a teaching job . 
so you teach in plano schools ? 
i did for a while , 
so , i 'm home with two children , 
new career . 
new career 
i had been down here to visit 
and that 's how it worked out . 
i think a lot of people were leaving michigan all about the time i came here in the early eighties 
and it seemed like it was almost a mass exodus . 
you know , the little joke about , will the last person leaving michigan just turn out the light . 
it 's a nice place , 
that 's a nice place , though . 
i said i lived in the pontiac . 
i did n't live in the city of pontiac , 
i lived to the west of it . 
i forget the county , 
but where all the lakes are around there . 
sort of . 
i lived in an apartment complex on one of the lakes . 
it was real close to where i worked . 
it was only four miles to work 
and it was wonderful being on the lake like that . 
in the summer , you feel like you 're on a vacation all the time because you 're right on a lake 
and everybody 's out enjoying the water and such , 
and in the winter time the lakes froze over , 
you could still kind of go sledding and such out there 
but i thought it was just really neat to be out there on all those lakes . 
there 's lots of really small ones out there . 
maybe a mile , two long . 
that 's enough to do some boating 
that 's right . 
and it was lots of fun . 
that 's right . 
i think it 's toward ann arbor , 
so it 's probably out in that direction , 
but that 's the only one i probably could name after all these years 
but it was just lots of little lakes 
and , of course , it was a little more expensive to live on the lake , 
but i just thought that was grand . 
and i think a lot of people did n't really know that there were all those lakes out there unless you were from that area and kind of spotted them , 
but there was quite a few lakes all around there . 
it was almost like you were living on an island 
there was so much water around where i was . 
i said i was n't close to downtown pontiac , 
i was way out to the west maybe four or five miles from the city limits 
and it was really nice out there . 
we had pine knob to go skiing and stuff . 
so there were things around there . 
really was pretty nice . 
and is n't that where they have a summer music festival there , too ? 
in the summertime they have musicals there 
and in the winter time they make snow and have a ski slope . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
we did n't do a lot of it , 
so those are always fun . 
and alpine , 
was it alpine was another ski slope that we went to , 
so it was nice . 
my dad would kind of bank up the snow in the backyard and turn the hose on make a pond in the backyard for us . 
but , we probably did some ice skating on it , 
but then it chipped 
and it would melt or whatever and get pretty uneven 
christmas time some of our relatives would come up from alabama , 
and i think most times we would have snow around christmas 
and the kids when they were young would just go nuts . 
because they were from alabama where it never snowed 
and they just had a grand time watching the snow and getting out there and playing in it eternally . 
if only it would make nice snow here in texas , we 'd be okay at christmas time . 
i came down in early eighty-two 
and there was just a freak snowfall early one morning in december couple days before christmas . 
it lasted only a few hours , 
by noon it was gone . 
and i remember getting up and somebody telling me , better wait to go to work because the roads are all snow . 
and i was laughing , going that 's a good practical joke , 
they said , really , there 's snow 
and there was , but a very short time 
and the weather got warm so quick 
it just melted it all away . 
i know . 
course , when we get an ice storm , that 's not too much fun . 
that 's not fun either , 
so i just as soon have all the slushy snow on the streets than have the ice on the streets 
our house is kind of on a little hill , 
so we get the sled out 
and the kids go down the hill on the sleds when it 's icy , 
they just go down the ice . 
and if it 's cold , we say , out you go . 
i think we must be the only people on the block that make use of that cold weather and get out there . 
i think it 's fun , 
even the couple of ice storms i 've gotten out there in my ski pants or something and still just been out and enjoying it a little bit . 
sometimes the ice is pretty bad , 
but if you get on , the grassy kind of part , you get a little bit of traction not slip and fall . 
do you have recycling in sachse ? 
we do . 
we 've got a pickup twice a week that they come out 
and , they have their own special bin that they hand it out to everybody 
and they take it . 
and it 's twice a week ? 
used to be we put all of our trash in green bags and the trash men came out twice a week and picked up . 
and now they have these large green containers 
and you have to put your trash that you do n't recycle in there . 
and then they have n't started curbside recycling yet , 
but they 're planning on doing it very soon . 
apparently the trucks that they had lined up , they needed the parts for , saudi arabia . 
and so that put off the program for a while . 
but do you recycle ? 
my kids do . 
do they ? 
put it that way . 
they 've been recycling cans for extra money . 
so that 's been their summer money 
and they 're fixing to go to disneyland . 
that 's great . 
that 's the way we started too . 
my daughter was going , to camp goddard which is through the plano school system in the fall couple of years ago 
and she had to earn money for it 
and she was too young to baby-sit . 
so , that 's how she started . 
she started recycling cans 
and from there we now recycle glass and newspapers and aluminum cans and plastics . 
is that the same way as with the aluminum cans where you go and they , weigh it or whatever 
the only thing we get paid for are the aluminum cans . 
the rest of it we just do because my husband has become hooked on recycling . 
and so we do n't get paid for that 
but that 's okay . 
it 's not that much of a bother really . 
you just have to rinse out your bottles or whatever 
and we use a lot of , two liter bottles . and milk cartons and things like that . 
it 's amazing how much plastic you generate . 
i was amazed at how many cans that we got 
because when the kids first went down , i said , that 's great 
and i was thinking maybe i 'd help supplement it when they turned them in 
but it 's amazing how many cans you go through . and how fast they accumulate . 
it really is . 
all that stuff 
and how much we have reduced our waste that we 're generating a week . 
i know our neighbors , when we first went to this bin program said , there 's no way we 're going to have to have pickup twice a week . 
they were real upset 
but they were only picking up once a week . 
and we said to them , if you recycle you 'll go two weeks without having to put out the green container . 
and it 's really amazing . 
the other thing he does , that my husband a real stickler about is we do n't collect our grass clippings . 
he got a little mulcher thing . 
it 's just a little attachment for the lawn mower 
and we mow once a week . 
more often then that . 
and then the clippings just get mulched up and then just lay on , the lawn . 
and it 's amazing , 
it 's amazing . 
we do n't collect any of that 
and that has cut down a lot in what we throw out . 
we do n't catch it either , mainly because my husband rarely has time to mow the yard . 
so , if it gets mowed , i do it normally . 
and i ca n't mow the yard with the grass catch on it . 
it 's too heavy . 
so i just mow it and leave it . 
it just soaks in . 
sure it does . 
sure it does . 
it really does 
actually they say that you 're wasting fertilizer if you 're catching your grass clippings . 
that 's that much fertilizer you have to use because it does fertilize the lawn . 
it 's amazing . 
i like it better doing it . 
it cuts down on my mow time anyway 
that 's true . 
and you zip through it quicker . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
i really think you 're going to get hooked on plastics and paper before you know it . 
we probably will . 
it 's really not that much trouble . 
we keep a garbage bag in the garage . 
and as soon as we use something we crush it up and put it out there 
and then every few weeks we have a recycling center near wal-mart . 
they have the containers that you can just go over there and drop it in 
and it 's really no trouble . 
and i feel like at least we 're doing something . 
i read a magazine article 
it seems like a small contribution 
but it 's not . 
if everyone were to recycle just their newspapers , they would save thousands and thousands of trees a day , just from not throwing out your newspapers . 
and when you read that you think , maybe it is a big deal . 
what makes me sick is when they show the dump sites and , how big they are . 
or in new york , the barges that go up and down the river 
and they do n't have any place to put it 
and it just floats in the , 
it 's ugh . 
and that 's really not necessary . 
it really is n't 
if everybody would do just a little bit it would make a big difference . 
it would make a huge impact . 
so , i 'm excited about the recycling program in plano . 
i , ca n't wait for them to get it started . because it 'll be that much easier for us , 
like i said , now we have to take it over to wal-mart . 
it would be real nice if they just came by and just picked up . 
it 's convenient out here for them to do it . 
what do they pick up ? 
they pick up the plastic , the glass , and the newspaper . 
they do ? 
and do you have to sort that ? 
or do you just put it all in . 
you just put it in the one bin 
and i guess they do the sorting . 
but they 'll do the aluminum cans too 
but we do n't give them those . 
the kids keep those . 
so you 're doing that now ? 
you 're doing the newspapers and the glass ? 
we do n't take the newspaper to begin with . when , neither one of us are home to read it . 
so we do n't have the newspapers but the plastic and the glass . 
at first , when it first started , it was hard because you 're just used to throwing things . 
my husband would , come home and go through the trash and say , you threw this away . 
he would get all upset 
it 's just such an automatic reaction . 
and now we think before we throw anything away . 
it is . 
it 's really funny . 
once you get into the habit of it , it 's okay , 
it 's just making it a habit that 's hard . 
i know . 
the kids have even got to the point where if they see anybody going in the trash can with a can they 're , do n't do that 
and they go to the sink , 
they rinse them out , 
and they put them upside down , 
they let them drain 
and then , after a couple of days they take them all outside 
and , i put them in a big bag anyway 
and then they dump the bag out 
and then they crush them . 
so that 's their activity thing . to go out there and crush . 
that 's fun . 
that 's a lot of fun . 
that 's a lot of fun . 
that 's great . 
i 'm . 
my sister was here recently from connecticut 
and they have a deposit on all their bottles and cans . 
we 're to discuss a little bit about the process of putting someone in a nursing home and making the decision on a family basis 
and , probably the first question would be whether you 've ever had to go through that process . 
not so much personally 
but my husband has an aunt who has been like a second mother always lived in the same town and took care of him and such . 
they live down in college station where , his parents do too . 
and they put her in a home last year . 
she appeared to have a couple of light strokes and started to not be able to be in her apartment on her own . 
so they found a place nearby that they put her in last year . 
it was pretty much a physical decision ? 
it 's just she had had her own apartment and drove a car and everything up until that point . 
then she was starting to lose memory sometimes which is kind of frightening when she 's in the car . 
my husband 's family are reaching that point 
but it 's so difficult . 
was she in favor of it 
or was she kind of opposed to it ? 
it was n't a very strong stroke . 
it was just kind of all of a sudden she was n't herself anymore . 
and she got kind of fearful of being on her own . 
she never really ate very well . 
it was one thing . 
she hardly ever took care of herself 
and she did n't eat . 
she ate very poor 
bad nutrition on top of it . 
and she got to the point she did n't want to . 
so often i think though , elderly people do n't realize that their diet is that bad . 
i work with a lot of elderly people , 
i 'm a trust officer 
and so often they think they 're adequately caring for themselves when they 're really not eating very much or very balanced meals . 
she was almost ridiculous . 
she 'd eat ice cream and cookies . 
that 's part of the aging process , that your taste buds goes back to the sweet taste . 
it really is . 
she did n't want to cook for herself anymore . 
that 's too much trouble . 
that 's too much trouble . 
did n't want to cook . 
people do n't want to try to figure out little bitty individual meals . 
i do that right now , 
and i 'm not near nursing home age . 
although they 've got meals on wheels , which i understand is a really good way to handle that so that at least they eat . 
so as a family you all just visited nursing homes 
or probably in college station there was n't a whole lot of choice . 
i do n't think there was . , 
i know a little bit more from a co-worker . 
her mother-in-law had been in for quite some time and had different degrees of a place that she was in . 
she was ambulatory 
and so there was a lesser care . 
then she got uh , hip broken 
and then she was n't as ambulatory 
so they were almost to the point of saying she ca n't be here anymore . 
but , i remember from her checking around , she ended up staying at the arkansas house out in arlington , something like that . 
and you know the type of facilities whether it 's a shared room or two separate rooms that share a bathroom . 
all of them all seem to say that people there are going to steal their items . 
that 's a given . 
they 're always saying that somebody 's going to , 
and sometimes the help there does it , i think . 
. so , they , do n't have too many facilities for their personal items . 
very limited space waste 
but at least they all seem to have people that monitor their medication intake and dining facilities , 
go to the dining room and eat some good meals . 
very antisocial . 
maybe it takes a while for them to say , i 'll be with other people 
adapt . 
i do n't understand that , they do n't want to be with anybody else . 
as i think i mentioned , i was in the trust business 
and i 've seen so many elderly people . 
usually there has to be some wealth involved , which is great , if you do n't make the decisions so late that you 're worried about money 
but the places like presbyterian village and some of the retirement places where they have different levels of care seems to be so much better , as far as elderly people adapting . 
they 're able to move in while they 're still independent and still social 
and they do group things . 
and then if health or mental capacity deteriorates , they 're able to take the next steps without so much change 
and i wish everybody could go that direction rather than just all of a sudden moving out of the home they 've always been in . 
it 's really kind of difficult . 
my aunt 's mother is gotten ill recently 
and she lives in pennsylvania , 
they live in alabama . 
and they 're saying , we need you to be closer 
and you have , women like that , 
it seems like the women just out live their husbands , but , very reluctantly , 
they do n't get out of the house , 
they do n't socialize 
but it 's my home 
and i do n't want to leave it . 
and it 's the first step in actually accepting that you are failing and aging . 
once you make that step you know that it 's just going to be downhill from then on 
and i 've seen people really fight it that desperately needed to make the change . 
in fact , that 's probably what 's going to happen with my husband 's mother . 
she 's going to endanger herself before she 'll willingly make the decision . 
and that scares me the thought of forcing somebody to do something . 
but it 's so lonely , 
they ca n't get out and see anyone 
and it 's hard for someone like me to understand that 
because i think , what do you have there ? 
it 's a house , 
it 's walls 
and it 's furniture 
but there 's nobody there . 
not as independence . 
do n't you want to be close to me ? be with other people . 
i just do n't understand why they , so much want to just stay in that building . 
and there 's no family there , 
they do n't get to see their grandkids , 
they do n't get to see their children , 
they . 
and the quality of life really is n't there . 
it 's tough , 
it really is . 
that 's from the child 's standpoint . 
the child is going , why do n't you want to be close to me and your other family . 
what does that house got attraction ? 
they fear being dependent on somebody . 
i know they 're really proud of independence . 
they fear being a burden to family members . 
my husband 's mother will have major surgery 
and we 'll find out about it in a casual conversation . 
she 'll let something slip 
and we 'll say , wait a minute . 
and that 's it , 
i did n't want to bother you . 
she ca n't accept that we want to be the care givers . 
when she got home , who took care of her ? 
she stayed in a temporary nursing home . until she was okay . 
but it 's frightening to us because we live pretty far from her . 
she 's down in temple 
and we ca n't see her often enough to really know what 's going on . 
so , it 's difficult , 
it really is 
and we 're all heading that way 
his folks are in college station 
and we 've pretty much planned that we 'll be here in the dallas area 
and there 's nothing to hold them there in college station since they 're retired . 
so we thought maybe we could get them to move a little closer here . 
i guess first of all i could have asked that before . 
do you have children ? 
because i did n't know if that would make a difference in how you felt . 
i think it 's a good idea . 
i think everybody should , put in their time so to speak for the good of the nation and for the good of themselves . 
would everyone grow up and mature and realize what this country 's all about . 
i guess that 's something that my family has always believed strongly in , 
and i had opportunities in high school , to work in some programs 
did you ? 
and i agree with what you said that it benefits the person doing it so much i do n't think they realize 
and i think it gives you a better perspective , on life 
and it gives you a little bit more a glimpse of the real world 
and it would certainly help the country , too . 
i think that 's probably like quite a few things that the kids maybe not so much nowadays but used to go through , 
they did things for people for their communities , for their , families , for their friends , where now , i 'm not sure they really do . 
when they asked the question i thought , that sounds wonderful . 
and then , i wondered if people were unwilling 
but i think even if you went in with a negative attitude i do n't think it would stay negative very long . 
but i do know through some organized groups like scouts and church they , do still have opportunities . 
that 's probably true 
but even through those groups , do you think that they participate as much as maybe they used to ? 
not as much as i remember growing up . 
and that was something in the fifties and sixties , 
seemed more common in the last two decades . 
i think that 's probably true . 
i think it 's probably more true , still in the smaller communities then in the larger cities . 
where abouts do you live ? 
what part of the country ? 
we 're in plano 
so we 're not far apart . 
one of the calls i 'd gotten before was down to austin 
and i know , a friend of mine talked to someone in the midwest 
so i know there is the possibility that it could be out of the area . 
i had n't even thought about it being out of the area 
but you 're right . 
i grew up in a real small town in florida . 
i mean a real small town . 
of course it was back in the fifties 
and i think it was real prevalent back then . 
i think people thought more of others than they do now as far as doing things for them and then gaining benefits from it . 
and maybe this would be a way to get that feeling back . if we 've lost some of that 
and it seems in the last decade or two that 's true , 
maybe that 's a way , 
if young people had to do it maybe that would start the trend back because that 's one of the things i always thought was a wonderful part of our country . is helping others . 
i do to . 
i do to . 
i 'm not sure that today 's kids would go for it though . 
i think you would have to start younger . 
i do n't know how young you 'd have to go 
but i think by the time they 're early teenagers anyway , i think it 's too late now . at least around here . 
i think it does help even preschoolers 
they 're things even just starting around the home 
little ones can do a little bit to help the family . 
and just watching the parents do things too it can start a pattern . 
there 's always something , no matter how young , 
and then that helps develop that attitude . 
i guess i would really like to see this happen with families more . 
i think this is certainly a possible way to handle it 
that 's something that i think that has been lost in families 
and i think that 's a good place to start again . 
i think it has to start in the families first because if you do n't do it for your own immediate family , you 're sure not going to do it for anybody else . 
when you live in areas like that where there 's so much they do n't realize what a small percentage of the world that is . 
i 'm sure , not even one percent of the world is as fortunate as these areas 
that 's probably true . 
that 's probably true . 
i know our church youth group starts with projects young 
but they have a high school group that works in the appalachia area every year . 
they 've done this for fourteen years now . 
that 's great . 
and they also see that there 's a different way of life and those families are really close . 
some of the things , that we talked about that were common in the fifties are still there 
every youth that 's ever gone really has felt that their life has been changed 
and it 's changed their perspective . 
and that 's just the two weeks during the summer . 
that 's great . 
i 'm glad that there are still some areas that get the youth involved in that sort of thing . 
even a small amount of exposure can make a vast difference in their attitudes . 
did you have anything else ? 
i guess that 's about all . 
i enjoyed talking with you . 
good talking with you . 
and i hope you have a good evening . 
you too . 
i guess we 're supposed to discuss the school system . 
that should n't be too much trouble for the two of us . ? 
as many years as we 've been involved in one . 
i really feel fortunate in that , even though there are problems , they 're not a lot of problems where i teach . 
but from talking to people in other districts there are some major problems with dropouts . 
when i was in minnesota last summer there was a teacher who said that on a given day she did n't know how many of her students would show up 
and sometimes they did n't even show up for class 
and she taught in high school in inner city minneapolis . 
and they just did n't come to school . 
that 's really sad is n't it ? . 
and i can not imagine being able to do much of anything when they do n't even come to school . 
just recently in the paper here , were articles about students working . high school students that work and the percentage of hours that they work and how that affects their grades . 
but for those students who are determined to do well anyway , that handling a job was very possible and that it seemed to have more to do with other factors . 
i think so too . 
what are their plans after high school . 
and what 's their home situation . 
the home is the key . 
and the main goal is making money now 
and it may be a survival thing for the family , which you can understand . 
this is a stopgap measure because we need it right now , 
but that the most important thing is still getting your education . 
your education . 
when they said the topic of what 's wrong with the public schools , my first impulse was it is n't really what 's wrong with the public schools . 
it 's what 's wrong with families . 
that 's right . 
it 's what 's wrong with families 
they do n't know what to expect at home . 
they do n't feel secure there , 
they do n't know what 's going to happen just out front of their apartment complex . 
for example that child that was shot . 
how can they concentrate on schooling ? 
i agree with you , 
i think that 's the main problem . 
and schools now are supposed to solve social problems mental and emotional problems as well as educate the kids and try to provide them with some security . 
and that 's overwhelming . 
at our school we have over a thousand elementary kids 
and last year was the first year that we ever had more than one counselor . 
and that 's just really not enough . 
it is n't . 
and i was talking to somebody that teaches in a middle school 
and they said , we need more in the middle school because that 's when kids are at a tougher and rougher age and all that . 
but part of my feeling is that if you help them to work through their problems while they 're littler , then they wo n't have as many problems up there . 
i think there has to be at least a counselor 
and we just recently had a counselor at elementary . 
we did n't even have counselors in elementary . 
we have always , though , had three at middle schools because we had about a thousand kids 
and they divided them up between three counselors 
but for a good while every year they 'd have a different counselor 
and they decided that did n't work . 
they started dividing the kids up so that a counselor stays with her group of counselees through all three years of middle school . 
they do that here . 
and i think that would give them more security in going to the counselor . 
if they have a rapport with their counselor . 
if they do n't , i hope they have the flexibility to be able to change a child that really is in need of counseling help if they absolutely refuse to work with them . 
to change , 
and occasionally that happens . 
but , it is frightening 
because , education is the key to our future 
it certainly is . 
and if we have children who are not getting their education , for one reason or another , then what are we going to do with them ? 
that 's right . 
what 's going to happen to them ? 
are they going to be able to work at other kind of menial jobs 
or are they going to be the thieves and the people in prison . 
and our prisons are filling up faster then we can build them . 
that 's no good . 
i 'm on that campus strategic planning committee for my school . 
they have all these different names for things , strategies and all these different things . 
but , anyway , one of the key things was that we believed that the public education is the best economic value . 
then i think they decided to strike economic . 
anyway the point was , what happens when public education fails ? 
will then people go to private schools ? 
what kind of a situation do they get there 
and what kind of state are we in if most people are going to private schools . 
i think one thing that we 'll see is that we wo n't be educating everybody . 
there will be a lot of people who will not get even a menial education like in other countries of the world where they do n't try to educate everyone . 
that 's one of the things that we do . 
we try to educate everyone . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
we 're the only country in the world that does . 
and let everyone have an opportunity to reach higher education if they 're willing to work and have some ability . 
they can do that . 
and one of the plano school district 's goals is that they will graduate every child that is here in the ninth grade , 
i believe it 's something like that , 
it 's worded . 
and i do n't know . 
that 's so important , 
then that helps a lot . 
i think the gang violence is scaring everyone to death too . 
it 's scary to me . 
really a frightening situation . 
i guess we 're both lucky . to be in situations and schools where we do n't see that . 
my folks talk about it a lot in illinois . 
my mother was teacher for years and years 
and they live in peoria , illinois , 
and they 're talking a lot about the school situation there , too . 
shall we wrap it up ? 
i would imagine that we 've talked the amount of time necessary . 
i think we have to . 
so i 'll see you when we see you . 
we were in austin yesterday . 
the reason that i was n't at church 
and we went to hear james wind ensemble concert 
they left this morning for england . 
how exciting . 
is n't that wonderful ? 
that is wonderful . 
what an experience . 
have you ever had to put your children in , child care , mary dell ? 
i 'm an old experienced hand . 
i started back when it was n't , stylish to do that at all . 
my daughter that 's seventeen now i worked even when she was a baby . 
and i had private care for both my daughters until they were two 
and then i was really lucky to have put them in a , methodist day school at preston hollow methodist , right off of walnut hill and preston . 
and it was a wonderful environment . 
i just wish all kids , if they have to be put in day school , could have that kind of place . 
i see . 
so , it worked well . 
how about you ? 
i have a nine year old and a six year old 
and neither one of them has ever been in , day care for the reason of me working 
but they both went through preschool . 
it 's not hard to find anything that 's part-time . 
so many of the churches have really strong preschool and children 's day out 
half day programs . 
but , it was a nightmare back when cheryl was little 
and this is one of the few churches that did it . 
there were a couple downtown dallas 
but they seemed , cold and impersonal , 
i just could n't hack it . 
and what i liked about preston hollow is that the people that were there when cheryl was two , which was fifteen years ago , many of them are still there today . 
so there was real continuity . 
she went back as a teenager 
and these people that had changed her diapers when she was three were still there . 
so , it was really neat . 
but it was because they had a director that had always done it as a labor of love 
and she just kept good people and real cheerful place , lots of arts and crafts , 
and i 'm really glad my kids had it because plano schools do so little of that . that if they had n't had it before they hit first grade they were never going to have any art or music or any of the interpretive stuff . 
that is a big drawback in the , public schools out here to , 
you 're lucky to have an art teacher 
and if you do you get them once a week or something . 
or pay for it after school . 
our emily 's in the third grade over at huffman 
and they started a pilot program where we can pay private tuition so that they can take french and music and art 
and i willingly did it 
is that right ? 
i had no idea . 
but i thought , this makes me angry . 
this is something that ought to be in the schools rather than some of the other stuff they do . 
and with our budget cuts , i 'm sure that 's not going to change anytime soon . 
that 's the only way they 're going to be able to do it . 
and parents who really want their kids to have any humanities are going to have to do that . 
so , in some ways the day schools do serve those purposes . 
that 's true . 
even the preschools they get so much of that in preschool 
and then when they hit kindergarten it 's . culture shock . 
put the colors away . 
get the computers out 
which is too bad . 
that 's hard . 
it 's so difficult for them . 
did you have your children in , private care , 
was that in your home or in someone else 's home ? 
until they were two . 
both times they were at our house . 
so you were able to have somebody come there . 
and that was hard too . 
i lucked out with really good people both times 
but i know so many people that are never able to find that 
and i 'd practically give my paycheck away to do it , 
did you have a nanny 
or did you have someone that lived in with you ? 
she did n't live with us . 
the first one was an , elderly lady who was putting a daughter through nursing school just purely on baby-sitting money . 
and she kept cheryl during the day and then did more baby-sitting at night . 
and she was neat because she was like the grandmother that my kids never had because both our parents are dead . 
so that was a plus from that respect as well . 
and then with emily it was a neighborhood friend that kept her . 
i just can not fathom putting a little bitty baby in a commercial care center . 
i was just listening to a program this morning , 
i guess it was on the home show , 
i ca n't even think of the name of it . 
i was halfway listening while i was painting . 
it 's some kind of advisory board they 've put together for parents and children 
and they 've now moved it to washington , d c 
and the doctor that was on there , the pediatrician said i ca n't imagine leaving a three week old and taking them to a nursery day-care and leaving them there . 
that would be hard . 
they give a lot more leave . 
i work at n c n b now , 
and our benefits for maternal and parental care and even for elderly people are really expanding . 
we have more options now then we did when my kids were born , 
with being able to take off full-time longer you can phase your schedule in so that it 's not full-time for up to six months . 
that 's great . 
it 's really neat . 
i 've had a couple of assistants that came back just three days a week 
or they 've whatever schedule they want from a pay standpoint . 
we try to work it with their hours . 
and that helps because you do n't have to just wean yourself cold turkey and say i never get to see my baby for eight hours a day again . 
and the bank has a lot of programs now for child care referrals . 
of course it 's too late for me 
so i 've not tried them to see how effective they are 
but i think we 're finally beginning to make progress but just not very fast . 
it 's amazing . 
and for our age group it 's too late , 
too little , too late . 
but i do think it 's an area that needs to be looked at and improved because more of us are going to have to work . 
two income families are here to stay . 
and i would think since big business is supposedly why the government makes the decisions they do the people that work in big business have families 
they have children . 
so , it 's only to their advantage that they get these programs going and working 
you retain employees and keep them longer . 
that was the rationale they gave when they were giving us information about our employee assistance programs that they want us to be happy and want us to be able to cope with trying to split ourselves in fifteen million pieces . 
so , i hope it helps . 
it seems to help the new mothers not have to come back full-time . 
that 's good . 
because that 's hard . 
that 's good to know . 
i have a couple of friends that , have found a private home to take their children to when they 're young until they hit the preschool age . 
usually you 'll find a woman that 's keeping six children or four to six children in the home 
and my future sister-in-law 's mother does that too , full-time . 
and this is what i found with emily . 
from the time she started first grade , i wanted her out in plano area . 
and i kept finding neighbors and friends 
and they 'd move . 
she ended up being in a different home every year . 
too transit . 
and i finally decided i did n't like that because it was traumatic to her to get so attached to a family and then have them move . 
and her surroundings . 
so this year i tried kinder-care 
i guess we 're going to discuss food and cooking . 
do you enjoy cooking ? 
sometimes , not all the time . 
i 'm kind of that way , too . 
i enjoy cooking when i have time . 
i do n't enjoy preparing three meals a day everyday . 
that 's about the same boat i 'm in , too . 
it gets kind of boring . 
how big is the family you cook for ? 
five . 
we have four , 
and two of them are teenage boys , 
i 'll be hitting that fairly soon because all of mine are boys , too . 
are they ? . 
and they get pretty particular sometimes in what they want to have . 
we have that problem too . 
but also , now it 's just the amount that they eat . 
it 's just absolutely incredible . 
my oldest is nine 
and he already does that . 
does he ? . 
and i told him he 's going to have to get a part-time job by the time he reaches teenage years so he can eat . 
that 's true . 
and we do it for special stuff celebrations 
and , we have steak 
and he does the steak 
out on the grill ? 
and he marinates it in his special stuff that he does . 
and it 's real good . 
and i do sauteed mushrooms , 
how , 
and asparagus . 
and that 's our favorite , dinner . 
that sound good . 
i love that . 
my husband really likes seafood . 
so do we . 
and i think that no matter what i do , i do n't serve enough of it , really , to suit him . 
i did n't grow up eating that much seafood 
and so i do n't know , 
it 's just kind of not natural to me 
but i like it . 
and i do n't know , 
it 's called seafood stew 
and it 's really like a soup that you serve over rice . 
and it has oysters and shrimp and crab in it . 
it 's not the one with all the shells and stuff in it , is it ? 
that 's kind of louisiana if you do that . 
i do n't see how you eat that , 
i do n't either . 
it is really good 
and one thing that 's good is it makes a large amount . 
and so usually we eat one 
and i freeze two containers of it . 
then that 's just real quick to get it out and serve it over rice . 
but neither of my kids will eat it , 
it defeats the purpose . 
it really does . 
a friend gave me a recipe that i really like for chicken enchiladas . 
have you made them ? 
my husband makes those . 
does he . 
i do n't eat enchiladas . 
i do n't know , 
i guess it 's the texture , or something . 
i do n't like the taste of enchiladas . 
but everyone else in my family does . 
these are done with a flour tortilla . 
is that what he uses ? 
i do n't know , 
it 's , i do n't know what , 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know what it is about the enchiladas . 
and i 'm the only one including my mom and dad and my brother . 
i 'm the only one that does n't eat it . 
is n't that something ? 
but , my kids love it . 
i was going to say , my kids both eat it . 
i guess that 's one thing that i particularly like . 
but i think it 's good for company , too , 
and i 've made it a few times . 
and you can make a lot at one time when i needed to make something to give somebody to take over to somebody 's house or something else . 
it 's nice when it makes , a lot because you can feed your own family 
because when i make this chicken casserole it makes a real big casserole and then another one that i freeze . 
what does it have in it ? 
you can use chicken or turkey , 
because my mom started making it right after thanksgiving and using the leftover turkey . 
when i do recipes i just throw stuff in . 
i 'm not real good about measuring 
i do it to taste . 
sometimes those are the best ones , 
but it 's just chicken , 
it 's , as much as you want torn up and rice and cream of chicken soup and some mayonnaise and lemon juice and celery 
and that 's it , 
and some hard-boiled eggs . 
that sounds good . 
and that 's it . 
you just mix it all together and pop it in the oven just to heat it through . 
and you sprinkle those , toasted onion rings . on top of it for the crunchy . 
those are good are n't they ? . 
and that 's it . 
that sounds good . 
and it 's filling because of the rice . 
you cook the rice before you put it in ? 
i bet the mayonnaise in there kind of gives it a tang that would be good . 
it gives it an extra little tang . 
i guess i would now use the new mayonnaise . 
that ? 
that 's really wonderful that they 're coming out with so many new things like that because i told my husband this summer , i love to eat chicken salad and tuna salad and stuff like that 
and basically it certainly a low calorie good thing except then you put your mayonnaise in there and spoil the whole thing . 
i know . 
and now it 's okay 
i used to just put a tiny bit in . 
now , i 'm just putting more and more in . 
i do n't like tuna salad unless it 's got lots of mayonnaise in it . 
and it used to be a hundred calories per tablespoon 
and now it 's twelve . 
i know . 
i just think that 's the best thing to have happened , 
i 'm just so excited about that . 
. . 
we did the low-cal stuff . 
with my kids i do n't , 
they get enough sugar and stuff anyway . 
mine are bouncing off the walls normally anyway . 
and they do n't need any added help . 
so , when we 're here at home with sweets and stuff , we do n't really do that much . 
i do a lot of fruits instead of the cakes and the candies and stuff like that . 
and drink wise they have kool-aid , milk or water . normally . 
now when they go to their grandmother 's house , which is every weekend . it 's a different story all around . 
that 's when they , as our family would say , pig out . 
that 's good . 
that 's exactly what it is . 
one of my boys that 's , twelve has high cholesterol . 
have you ever found out about your kids . 
not yet . 
and my other one does not . 
year or so ago he found out 
and he went on a fairly strict diet to try to get it down . and did ! 
he was able to get it down . 
i think it 's mostly hereditary because we really have never eaten high things in cholesterol . 
he 's never eaten any eggs . 
he 's never had anything but skim milk 
and i 've never bought butter and things like that . 
but he just left for the doctor again 
and it 's kind of back up . 
so he needs to be careful again . 
so we 've really been talking about the foods for him to be sure to eat 
the lower cholesterol foods and stuff . 
and so he 's eating an apple a day for the last two days . 
and all that kind of stuff does really help . 
i think we 've probably talked long enough 
my name is nola . 
i 'm in plano , texas . 
i 'm steve . 
i 'm in dallas , texas . 
not too far away . 
that 's unusual . 
i 've had some from plano , too . 
i think all mine have been east coast people so far . 
let 's see . 
social changes , 
social changes . 
what 's that mean ? . 
that sounds like not as recent social changes , too , like back to the sixties or fifties . 
think we can handle that ? 
there 's plenty of things to talk about there . 
shall i go ahead and push one ? 
you want to go ahead and start ? . 
i was hoping that you would 
that involves a lot of different areas , i think . 
it seems like the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer , is even more , true today ? 
there is a big difference in the economic status of people although i think that has been true always . 
perhaps there 's less of the middle range then there was . 
it 's like people are starting to give up hope 
and they start out very poor . 
let 's see , 
that 's a bad tangent to get on . 
what else has changed between the sixties and the eighties and the nineties ? 
i have three children 
and we 're home schooling . 
so , things that relate to education , are things that i think about a lot . 
i think that involves social changes a lot . 
for instance , i think the schools are having more and more problems because of things that are happening socially in the world around them and because of their parents and things that are being taught in the home are not taught in the home , rather and children being put in day-care centers from very early , 
and i think that a lot of these things that have been happening , such as the day-care centers and things , are having a big effect on the social changes . 
because of the way children are being raised , they 're not learning the values they need to learn . 
and they do n't have the self-esteem that they need to have 
and they do n't have a solid family life that they need to have to confidently deal with the things in the world . 
and i think we 're seeing a lot of rebellion and things because of that and the things like the gang things that are happening 
that is a pretty big change . 
that 's very , young for a baby . 
that 's really sad . 
and they think they have to 
i think that if they really tried , they would n't have to . 
and , i think that if they did n't and it became more of the standard not to that maybe companies would start paying men more so that their wives could stay home and have a more solid foundation for the kids . 
like you said they might be saving money , 
even if they had to pay more now in the long run it 's going to cost society more to force two people to work . even though it 's higher productivity is short-term . 
that 's right . 
it already costs society much more because of it . 
trying to do all these programs like headstart and things like those . you would n't have to do that if mothers would stay home with their children and do things with them . 
and i think a lot of it is selfishness . 
people have become very selfish . 
they do n't want to stay home with the kids or something like that . 
there are a lot of two parent situations where the woman goes back to work because that 's what she wants to do . 
rather than she needs the money just she wants the stimulating environment . 
rather than that , she has to have the money particularly . 
or , maybe there 's a small need for money 
so she does it partly because of the money but partly for herself , too , 
it 's interesting , 
home study . is that what you said ? 
home school . 
home school . 
i have one going into fourth grade and one starting kindergarten and then a preschooler . and one on the way . 
you sound busy . 
so you 're teaching them , completely , 
and i think it 's becoming more popular then it has been for a while . 
home schooling 's always been around 
but i can see more and more families going to it because of the problems in the schools . 
and a lot of it is discipline problems . 
and you can tell which kids have been in day-care centers . 
it 's really obvious to look at them and watch the way they act and things . that they 've been raised in a day-care center . 
that 's pretty sad because something 's got to change with the schools . 
that 's what it all boils down to in the end , usually anyway . 
i think it 's going to , change in the homes before anything changes anywhere else . 
when they 're young , 
the home is the base , 
it 's the basic unit . 
and that 's where it all starts 
and maybe part of that is educating parents better . 
changing people 's expectations . 
i know they do have some classes in high schools and things for kids to give them an idea of what family life is like and that kind of thing 
i guess i enjoy eating out here and there , 
or it 's a good change from cooking and eating at home 
and i guess i like a variety of restaurants . 
sometimes it 's fun to go out and just have a hamburger and french fries and sort of a hamburger and french fry meal , 
and sometimes i enjoy going out having a formal meal . 
and sometimes it 's nice to go out and have a salad . 
something , 
do you usually go out with the children or without them ? 
a variety . 
i like to go sometimes without them 
and , sometimes it 's okay to take them along . 
sometimes i think we pay the baby-sitter as much as paying for their dinner or lunches 
so it just varies , 
we do a mix . 
sometimes it 's really nice to be able to go out and eat with just my husband 
and it would n't even really matter which restaurant it was , 
just to have a moment of peace and quiet without little ones at the table . 
so i guess actually there are times i even say , do n't sit us next to a table with other children , 
this is our night out . 
but , anyway , where do you like to eat ? 
we do n't have any children 
so we tend to , like to try all sorts of different things . 
and we 're very attracted to exotic food . 
and we like indian food , and thai cuisine and sort of gourmet mexican and things like that , as well as tex-mex and italian and chinese and things of that sort . 
of course , we like to occasionally go out and get down and dirty with barbecue or hamburgers or something like that , too . 
and we probably go out one to two times a week . 
and we 're pretty much regulars at an local italian restaurant . 
which one do you like ? 
momo 's . 
it 's been a long time since we 've been in there 
but it 's good . 
there 's an italian restaurant over by plano parkway there , 
is it campari 's or something ? 
i 've heard about it , 
i have n't been in there . 
it 's good . 
my husband had been in there several times 
and actually we went in there for lunch one day . 
and their pastas were great . 
that 's one of the things , a good pasta means a lot to me . 
i like different kinds of food . 
so , when we go out , i 'm always looking for something other than the standard menu , even if , it 's a mexican restaurant something other than the standard tacos , enchiladas , tamales and fajitas . 
you 're brave . 
and once in a while things backfire . 
we 've gone for romanian food and lebanese food , and things like that 
and i 'm not fond of some of those things 
but we 'll try anything . 
ethiopian , we 've had ethiopian . 
and not in plano of course . 
i do n't think so . 
but , we really do enjoy going out 
and , i 'm pretty adventurous in cooking , too , which also occasionally backfires . 
. even though traditional it can backfire . 
i think we 're supposed to say what will bring us back to a restaurant or what attracts us to a restaurant . 
how do you usually find a new restaurant ? 
my husband he 's the ethnic fan . 
i do n't know . 
you know what , 
we read the d magazine 
so do we . 
we check that and the friday section in the newspaper the pull out section there . 
they often do ratings of restaurants , 
we often save those and ventured out on , from there just for something that had a high rating . 
we have found a number of restaurants either through d the , friday paper and sometimes the observer . which my husband usually picks up . and also through coupons . 
when a new restaurant opens up , they usually send out coupons . 
that 's right . 
and when they say buy one get one free . it 's hard to resist , 
so we 'll go in . 
and very often we 'll , find a place that we like 
and we 'll stick with it 
once they no longer give coupons . we 'll stay there . 
but we 've found probably half of our sort of regular restaurants through coupons , and the other half through the newspaper reviews . 
we use the coupons , too . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
it 's wonderful , particularly if you have more than two people and you 've got four or something like that . 
it 's very expensive to go out to eat . 
it 's almost a hobby with us . 
sometimes i think going out to eat it 's sort of a recreation . 
just a change of pace from eating at home . 
and do the dishes . 
and do the dishes . 
a waitress or waiter that waits the table , it 's nice that they 're attentive 
but it 's not nice when they 're too attentive . 
we 've had experience with that , too . 
my sister , who also lives here in dallas tends to chat with waiters and waitresses and become their best friends during the course of dinner , which drives me absolutely batty . 
it may help their tip , may not . 
what 's your favorite restaurant ? 
i guess just in plano i like to go to souper salads . 
chili 's is always fine . 
i guess if we go into dallas , we like the routh , street cafe . 
we 've never been there . 
you would like it . 
and that 's supposed to be wonderful . 
you 'd like it especially it you 're adventuresome . 
we 've taken people there several times 
and they have a good choice of things that are very different sounding . 
whether you call it southwestern 
but we had venison chili one time . which was absolutely wonderful . 
and then i guess it must be seasonal 
and we 've been back , 
i guess it 's in the winter season 
they 've never had it when we 've been back , 
but , you ought to try that . 
it 's very good . 
i would probably like that . 
one or two times in my life i 've ever had venison , i 've loved it . 
i do n't know people who hunt 
that 's supposed to be a wonderful place . 
here in plano we tend to go to momo 's fairly often . 
we also go to chili 's and colter 's bar b q , 
and there is a little thai place that 's over on park that , we go to . 
my husband particularly likes that . 
we go into dallas , a lot because we 're both were from the richardson , north dallas area , up until fairly recently . 
and we 'll go down to blue mesa grill , 
that 's good . 
i 've been there . 
you ready ? 
what have you seen lately ? 
it 's funny , 
when i tried , to make the call the other days , 
i thought , 
i had n't seen anything since dances with wolves 
but today i went to see regarding with henry . 
i 'm dying to see that . 
it was really good . 
jeff wariner just got out of the hospital 
and jeff and deeanna went and another friend in the neighborhood , 
and we all liked it . 
we had both moms and fifteen year olds and a twelve year old 
and everyone enjoyed it . 
i am just dying to see it . 
i went to dinner with some friends last weekend 
and they said get a baby-sitter 
and we 'll all go see regarding henry 
and i said , i want to see it so bad . 
my son had gotten to see a lot of movies this summer , on , choir tour and visiting friends and one thing and another . a lot of the ones i had wanted to see 
and so since he had this friend up from houston and his friend had already seen so many and i thought they decided on this i thought i want to see this one , too . 
finally , it 's my first summer movie . 
let me see . 
we went to see one hundred and one dalmatians last weekend 
right before i went in the hospital my girlfriend said come on , 
we 're going to the movies . 
she goes all the time 
but i go maybe once every couple of months . 
and when i go , i go see two at a time . 
so we went to see soapdish , 
was that good ? 
hysterical . 
we laughed so hard , 
you could n't hear half the dialogue because everyone in the audience was laughing so hard . 
i want to see that and city slickers both . 
i love comedies . 
that 's the other one that we went to that night . 
was it ? 
and , my face hurt so bad , from laughing because i love billy crystal . 
and course , growing up on the back of a horse and being on ranches and stuff , so much of that was so true 
and i was absolutely rolling in the aisles . 
it was so funny . 
both of them were great . 
good . 
we just laughed so hard . 
and like i said , with soapdish , it is so cornball 
and it is so overacted that you 're just hysterical . 
they just carried it off , to the tee . 
i do n't know if you got to see weekend at bernie 's that was out a couple of years ago . 
they had a free showing at the berkeley united artist . 
how neat . 
and , i do n't know who was here or whether jay called a friend 
and we did n't think we 'd have much chance of getting in 
but we thought we 'd try it , 
free movie . 
it was so funny 
and it sounds like what you were just describing , soapdish , too . 
we hurt by the time we came out . 
and the whole theater was hysterical 
and it 's just goofy . 
or it should be out on t v , i would think , 
i think it is . 
i think it is . 
cause it 's just a fun summer light comedy , 
make your cheeks hurt laughing . 
especially in the theater it was contagious 
i imagine the way soapdish was , but , with everyone laughing . 
and people were just screaming and applauding 
and it was just hysterical . 
i 'm glad you did that before your surgery . 
me too , because i do n't even know if i could live through it now . 
i 'm getting around real good 
and i 'm just still real sore . 
and today course i went back to work two weeks after 
but i do n't have permanent work . 
right now i 'm working with a temporary agency . 
and so , the second week i was out of the hospital i went up and worked half day on the computers cause you can learn all the software for free . 
so i went up to do wordperfect cause that seems like that 's what everybody wants , 
and i was up there half a day and came home and collapsed . 
and then they called me to see if i wanted to work a day . 
and i said , yeah , 
and i went 
and of course it took me the whole weekend to recover from that . 
and i worked about three days a week ever since , two to three days a week . 
and so i went to my doctors last thursday , 
and this was my fourth week checkup 
and he said you 're just healing really well , 
i just ca n't get over this . 
he says , in two weeks you can go back to doing your crazy normal things . 
if you want to play ball , you can go play ball . 
he says , i 'm not going to say you 're going to feel like playing ball 
but you can if you want to . 
and he was teasing me 
and he says , you 'll be out there waterskiing , 
i can just see it now . 
and he says so you just take it easy for two more weeks . 
you 've only got two more weeks . 
i will . 
whatever you call easy , i 'll do it . 
and i 've been out trying to find a job because this is just not cutting it . 
and so , i 'm real glad that we did n't go see those funny ones when i 'm still sort of on the sore side . 
have you seen robin hood yet ? 
that was one jay got to see with a friend 
and to try and find time it 's hard with jim 's schedule , too , just to get a time that we can both go . 
and i 'm holding out for city slickers for the two of us because we had friends that went to see that and said it 's just perfect for our age group 
because i think he needs a comedy , too . 
and that 's what he would have liked to have seen regarding henry , too , 
but knew that , 
we 've got a lot of company this summer , which is wonderful . 
we 're really enjoying it 
but some of the different things we 're doing there 's just not enough time to do it all 
and realistically he knew he could n't get them all in . 
but jay really liked robin hood . 
it was funny cause he sounded like the critics . 
he said the plot line and the characters are n't real big 
but the fire scenes and that action part is fantastic . 
but , he thought robin hood was great . 
it was real different then you 'd expect , 
but he enjoyed it 
i went , 
course i am a kevin costner fan . 
me too . 
and 
supreme . 
i really like him a lot . which is why , dances with wolves was the last movie we had seen for several months 
was that wonderful . 
it was , 
in fact a friend from germany was visiting in march 
and we wanted to take him to see it . 
we were going to sit through it again cause we really wanted him to see it , too . 
i just thought that was terrific . 
i do , too . 
i think he 's really good . 
and he 's very good in regarding henry . 
that 's not an easy part to play , i do n't think . 
i would n't think . 
my kids are going to their dad 's tomorrow night 
so i sort of think i may go do that . 
that one wo n't . 
was this the first time you got to see one hundred and one dalmatians ? 
my parents took me when i was probably somewhere between ashley and jamie 's age . 
do you do a lot of dining out ? 
we do n't although we enjoy it . 
we do it more when we have company come . 
what about you ? 
we do some dining out . 
i do a lot of cooking 
so mostly when we go out it 's my husband and i , 
we do n't go out too often as a family unless it 's a fast-food kind of thing . 
but we do enjoy dining out . 
one of our favorite places here in the dallas area is atlantic cafe . 
have you ever been there ? 
i 've heard of that 
but i have n't been there . 
where , about is that ? 
i 've been to cafe pacific . 
have you ? 
that 's down in highland park . 
it 's highland park village . 
did you like it ? 
i love it . 
before we moved to , the area , my brother lived in dallas for a number of years 
and we came up one time when my father was visiting 
and we all ate there 
and their seafood was wonderful . 
it 's fabulous . 
it really is a great place . 
where is the atlantic cafe ? 
i believe it 's on mckinney . 
and originally , the guy who owns the cafe pacific and the guy who owns the atlantic cafe , were partners in the atlantic cafe . 
and then they separated 
and the guy started cafe pacific . 
and , i loved them both . 
i really do . 
i think they 're wonderful . 
that 's our favorite . 
what we 'd really like , if we just have a casual evening is houston 's . 
have you been there ? 
but i 've heard that 's really good , too , 
it 's wonderful . 
the only thing is you have to wait . 
you have to expect to wait at least an hour . 
so you have to go knowing you 're going to be sitting there for an hour waiting to get in . 
and , as long as you know that , it 's okay . 
but they have just about the best prime rib anywhere in the area . 
i love it . 
and , my husband really likes their ribs . 
so it 's hysterical . 
we go in 
and we sit there for an hour waiting to get in 
and then we get there 
and we do n't even look at the menu . 
you know right away what you want . 
i know right away what we want . 
we really enjoy prime rib , too , 
and actually the steak and ale out here we 've gone to , 
my in-laws also enjoy prime rib , when they 've had some of their specials on sunday , monday , or tuesday night 
and the time we went the prime rib was really good . 
was it ? 
i 've been there for lunch 
but , i 've never been there for dinner . 
and , it was good , 
that 's great . 
that 's , great . 
another nice place for prime rib is baby doe 's 
i 've heard about that , too 
maxwell 's nice , 
have you been there ? 
but . 
i guess we eat out even less than i realize . 
and i did n't think we ate out very often . 
baby doe 's is nice . 
and , one place i 'd never been that i would really like to go to is lawry 's . 
i 've heard that 's real good , lawry 's prime rib ? 
i had heard that , too . , 
i 've never been there 
but i 've heard it 's real good . 
have you been to the cafe de france right here on central expressway ? 
actually they have one in richardson that i 've been to . 
they have real nice lunches . 
have you been there for lunch ? 
primarily lunch , 
and breakfast sometimes 
but during the week they often have , a limited menu choice but very reasonable complete dinners for six ninety-nine that included the soup or salad entrees and accompaniments and dessert 
my husband and i like veal a lot 
and their veal dishes have been good . 
the specials . 
have you ever been to biffin 's ? 
i keep hearing about it . 
i keep hearing the advertisements of it 
and they keep saying it 's wonderful , 
it 's wonderful . 
i have not been over there 
and i was thinking it 's supposed to be a family place over near plano super bowl . 
and i 've not been there . 
i have n't either , 
one place , 
and i 've only been there for lunch , 
but i went with a friend , 
and we met her husband down on greenville , 
down near the highway twelve area , is gershwin 's , 
i 've been there . 
that was nice . 
it was 
and we both enjoy mushroom soup 
and linda had told me they had the best mushroom soup 
and they did . 
it was wonderful 
and we just had soup and salad so we could make room for the dessert , which was a chocolate sack . 
i 've heard of it . 
it 's all chocolate made like a paper bag 
and it 's filled with whip cream and strawberries and something ? 
it had a sponge cake and whip cream 
and it had strawberries , kiwis , and raspberries in a raspberry puree 
and we shared one , the three of us 
and it was plenty because it was very rich 
but i wished i 'd had a camera . 
it was beautiful . 
i bet it was . 
i bet it was . 
the last time we went to cafe pacific , it was father 's day , 
and we took another friend with us 
and for dessert we thought we had just stuffed ourselves . 
and so they had , a berry assortment . 
it was raspberries and blueberries and strawberries on a plate with a custard on the bottom . 
you know , how they do the plates real fancy with the decorations and then piled the berries and shaved chocolate on top of it 
and it was outstanding . 
it sounds wonderful . 
it was really relatively simple 
but it was good . 
it was really good . 
that 's one of the things that i do enjoy when you get a good restaurant . 
i love fresh berries . 
and , their fruits are always exceptional . 
i do n't , know 
they must have a special source for getting them because even at the farmer 's market you ca n't find them like that 
you ca n't find them . 
i 'm originally from connecticut 
and i was home a few years ago 
and my sister and brother-in-law were going to take us out for dinner 
and i was really amazed , 
the restaurants up there were kind of quaint . 
they were real , real pretty 
but they lacked , the service 
i do n't know . 
i guess there 's so much competition that they , really have to be good . 
and , i thought i would really miss that . 
i would , too , 
because we do n't go out very often . 
when we do go out in a way it 's like a little mini vacation i guess , 
and it 's a whole experience . 
of course you want the food to be good 
but the atmosphere and service are important too . 
and in order to survive in this area , i think they have to be good . 
because the ones that are n't so good just do n't make it . 
that reminded me of a place for lunch that 's a little off the beaten track 
but it is wonderful . 
it 's called cafe max 
and it 's at plano road and campbell . 
they have the most wonderful salads . 
they do what they call a salad sampler which easily could feed two or three . 
where do you live ? 
in plano . 
in plano ? 
where do you live ? 
in dallas . 
the air pollution is n't too bad in our area . 
so , we 're very fortunate 
but i know in some areas , it really is bad . 
something we were watching the other day 
and they were doing an overview of los angeles from an area that was up higher 
and you literally could see the band of smog . 
i 've never been out there , 
but , it was quite evident that , it was a real brown area 
i have n't either . 
i think it would be terrible to live in an area like that 
and , unfortunately , i think there are a lot of areas that are , that bad . 
particularly in the areas where there are industries where they are burning a lot of coal , and oil more up north , i guess , 
i think it 's a bigger problem . with the car pollution , 
i think air is n't as bad it once was , from the cars , because we certainly have plenty of cars in our area . 
i know that 's been the concern in europe . 
we have friends in germany and have family that live near the black forest area 
that 's something that europe did n't do right away 
and now they 're doing that 
and i guess it started in the last few years because they have found that in that particular part of the country , that 's the only pollution that 's been there . 
it 's not an area that is industry 
from acid rain ? 
i guess . 
from something that the car was giving , 
i think in the emissions , it gives off gases which combine up in the atmosphere and form a weak acid . 
it just makes the rain fall on the acid side 
and after a period of time , i think that accumulates in trees because they take it up through their roots , as well as it landing on the leaves , on surfaces , 
you 've seen what it 's done to buildings even where it 's really bad . 
it was put on by the power companies and , about the various sources of energy and how much pollution there was , and there was n't from various kinds of energy . 
and at that point in time , one person that was a speaker brought up the topic of acid rain 
and it was kind of pooh-poohed . 
you 're making a mountain out of a molehill , kind of thing . 
and it 's turned out that , that 's been very true , what he was forecasting about the accumulation of the pollutants in the air and the acid rain and what it would do to foliage . 
so , it 's kind of interesting the change in perspective from when i took that course . 
a lot of people are really afraid of nuclear . 
i 'm not afraid of nuclear , having had that course because of how the nuclear that they use is not bomb quality , 
and , we 're so strict with all our controls in the united states . the chances of an accident are slight , 
and , it does n't pollute the air at all . 
it 's safer to be around a nuclear plant then it is to be around a coal plant . 
many more deaths have occurred in and dealing with coal plants then ever around nuclear plants . 
it 's kind of funny because people are just petrified at the thought of nuclear . 
so , i do n't know . 
in europe there 's a lot of dependency on nuclear power 
and they recycle the fuel 
some people are really afraid to recycle the fuel because they 're afraid it could become bomb quality . 
but , that 's the only sensible thing to do , is recycle and reuse the fuel and not store it down in the ground . as far as i 'm concerned , where it could eventually pollute the groundwater . 
so , i do n't know what the answer is . 
the best answer , of course , would be solar or fusion , or something clean . 
we 've got a problem on the line , do n't we . 
i get that sometimes , 
my line gets some static . 
i do n't know why . 
but solar , of course , would be the cleanest . 
we did have a solar water heater when we lived in houston 
and oddly enough i thought our part of the country was ideal . 
i ca n't hear you at all for all this static . 
usually it 's the other phone i have trouble with . 
it must just , be on the line . 
can you hear me ? 
now i can again . 
i do n't know what the problem is 
but when we lived in houston we had a solar water heater 
and we had thought this part of the country would be ideal for solar homes and solar energy 
there are other areas that would be better suited . 
that surprised me because i think , we have a tremendous amount of sunny days . 
it can be used 
and it can help 
but that was a problem that they were still working on . 
it 's still got a long way to go . 
it 's just a possible solution in the future maybe to help in some ways . 
it may not in all ways . 
maybe they 'll come up with fusion be able to control it . 
i do n't know how long that 'll take , 
but , one of these days , 
because that 's perfectly clean . 
it 's just we ca n't control it . 
right now it takes more energy to cause fusion to occur then you get out , 
so , it is n't , 
not at all , 
and you ca n't control it unless you gotten a huge electromagnetic field , 
so that 's not going to work . 
at least not now . 
but who knows what the future will hold . as far as energy goes , 
i think , with solving some of the future energy problems , we 'll probably solve some of the pollution problems as well . 
i hope so . 
i do to . 
i like to be optimistic , 
i do n't like to be pessimistic about these things . 
we have one earth , to live on 
and we got to take care of it . 
and for the future generations , too . 
i 've noticed students are much more , young people are much more receptive to ideas about the environment and protecting the earth . 
and so , if we can raise generations with those concerns , we 'll solve a lot of our problems . 
i know i was part of the me generation where people did n't care . 
, it 's whatever , 
recycle , 
if it 's a problem , forget that . 
not throw the trash out the car window and leave it in the car and then throw it away ? 
how horrible . 
i 've always done those kinds of things because i just did n't like messes , 
how do you feel about capital punishment ? 
i am pretty much against it . 
how about you ? 
i 'm pretty much for it . 
we can have a debate . 
we 'll have some interesting discussion , i guess . 
i do n't know , 
one of the reasons that i 'm against it is that i 'm afraid of someone losing their life wrongly , 
wrongfully . 
would n't you want to see them killed for the punishment ? 
but then i thought about it 
and i thought , the loss that i would feel at losing my mother someone else would feel that about that person 
no matter how rotten they were , somebody loves them . 
it would never be equal , 
how about you ? 
i guess i can see it from several different perspectives , 
but when i hear about things like what they 've been reporting about in milwaukee to me i do n't see any way of rehabilitating the guy . 
maybe there is , 
i do n't know . 
that 's true . 
and he 's never going to be , to me , a functioning part of society . 
he 's already been either paroled , or whatever , for child molestation . 
i do n't know , 
i really have a hard time with that because he really sounds like a real sicko . 
and for the things he 's done , 
i do n't know , 
i guess it 's either put him in jail for the rest of his life or capital punishment 
that 's true , because a lot of these conversations i 've had on this program these telephone conversations have revolved around criminal justice . 
or whatever 
and most of the time i hear myself saying we do n't have enough room left in the jails 
and people crime is still climbing 
and we need to have different punishments . 
but i just am scared of capital punishment , i guess . 
you know there is always that chance 
but i guess to some people it 'd almost be better to die to them than to spend life in prison or whatever 
i do n't know 
you really throw a lot on the courts , hopefully that they wo n't do that for any situation really . 
it was disgusting when i read about it today . 
and when you find someone like that , that you know is guilty i guess i have a hard time feeling merciful toward him , 
especially when it 's so far removed . 
if it 's no one that i know then you have to think about the taxpayers paying the shelter and feed and clothe them for the rest of their life . 
and trying to rehabilitate him , too , 
letting him out again . 
and nobody wants that . 
everybody would be just as scared to death . 
we 've had a real problem here in texas with prison overcrowding 
and they 've been releasing people left and right 
and they 've committed murders and rapes and everything else , 
and you just think where 's the justice here . 
they 're not even having to serve out what they should be serving . 
that 's true . 
i just recently moved to massachusetts . 
i 'm not sure what their policy is on capital punishment 
and that was one of the questions 
but i do know that they are notorious for paroling people . 
and then having them reconvicted for violent crimes . 
and , i guess , they said do you think it should be restricted ? 
because a lot of states do still practice capital punishment 
i guess violent crimes would be the crimes where i can see it making the most sense . 
violent crimes with just malicious intent . 
i 'm not saying i think capital punishment is the perfect solution in every case especially because there are some cases when you just do n't know 
and i think there 's a shadow of a doubt like with this guy , in milwaukee . 
he pretty much confessed to it . 
just everything cannibalism and everything else 
i really would have a hard time , especially if i was on a jury , not wanting him to be executed . 
hang ? . 
because that 's just awful . 
and what is he going to do to the other people ? 
i have a hunch that the other prisoners are n't going to be too happy with him anyway . 
i do n't know , 
from what i hear about jail life is not any way to live . 
but i do n't know . 
i saw on a human interest story , or whatever today , there was a woman who was just being paroled and trying to make it back , 
she was off drugs and everything , 
but she said in prison you can get anything . 
you can . 
it 's just like being outside . 
people find ways around . 
and there 's a power structure that you have 
and , for some people who have been there for over , and over , and over , it really is n't , as bad . 
it 's not that bad of a life as it should be for the punishment aspect . 
but the society is turned against punishment and more towards rehabilitation 
and maybe that 's one of the reasons why crime has gone up , because it 's not so scary anymore . 
especially like repeat offenders . 
it just appalls me that they even get a ten year sentence and be out , in two , or three , or four years . 
that 's scary because i think we 're paroling them without even knowing if they 're going to be committing any more violent acts or not . 
and what they 're going to be doing when they get out . 
and , it 's really scary . 
i do n't know what the perfect solution to that is 
but i know that especially with violent crimes where you 're nearly a hundred percent convinced that they 're guilty and without much repentance or anything else then i guess , i just really do n't see much use for this guy in milwaukee . 
i could see capital punishment in a case like that . and for other people , too , that do things , like that . 
my wife and i are both participating in this survey 
and she picked up the phone 
and when she heard the topic , she said , capital punishment , 
handed it to you ? 
luckily it was for me . because they coordinate the times so it can , only be one or the other . 
i see . 
so , she tried to enter her number 
and it would n't work 
so she said , it 's for you . 
but , i do n't know , 
i struggle with it , 
but i really think that in terms of like this , i think that it might not be such a bad thing . because , i do n't know that anybody would feel good if you let someone like that loose in your community . 
i 'm , 
you 'd have to be scared to death . 
maybe , if they had more money or more resources to work more on rehabilitation , 
my favorite type of music is classical music , 
and i enjoy orchestral classical music 
and i enjoy classical guitar and classical piano , 
and that 's my favorite type . 
probably the favorite instrument would be the violin . 
i do n't really have a favorite , 
i like everything basically . 
i guess if i had to pick , it would be pop , 
but i like everything . 
so , it 's kind of hard to choose sometimes . 
i guess i enjoy listening to jazz sometime although i do n't feel like i have a good understanding of it , or a good feel for maybe what 's good jazz and what 's not , 
but , i enjoy it 
and sometimes i enjoy listening to fiddle music . 
we were in colorado recently 
and we heard this fiddler 
and we bought his tape 
and it 's kind of fun to listen to the fiddle pans . 
i grew up next door to the richardson symphony orchestra leader 
chris xeros . 
you lucky thing . 
so , we used to go and listen to them all the time 
and , my parents still do . 
i grew up with a lot of his music , and what not . 
especially my dad , likes a lot of classical music 
and he introduced my brother and i both , to a lot of it . 
chris xeros . 
you grew up with his children , too , then ? 
sure did . 
small world ? 
we all went to high school together 
and we 're still in contact with each other . 
we all go back to parents ' houses on the weekends , and what not 
actually , i used to play in the richardson symphony , 
i played violin in the orchestra for several years , 
it is a small world is n't it ? 
small world . 
so i know chris . 
he 's a pretty nice guy . 
most of the time . 
i had to work for him 
and i never would want to work for him . 
life just took different turns here 
so it just did n't work out to do that now . 
so , he 's about ready to retire , 
another year 
he sure is , 
he just became a grandfather . 
i heard that . 
they just had the baby 's christening 
it was really nice 
was it a boy or a girl ? 
he 's a little boy . 
what did they name him ? 
it 's elijah , or something like that . 
i keep forgetting , what she named him . 
his middle name is chris , or christopher for her daddy , 
of course . 
but , i think it 's elijah . 
it starts with an e . 
i ca n't remember . 
so you 've heard the richardson symphony ? 
we 've heard them and , liked it real well , of course . 
do you have a favorite instrument ? 
actually one of my favorite instruments is a harpsichord . 
i really like those , 
in fact , i had a harpsichord played at my wedding . 
did you ? 
which was real nice . 
i got married during the christmas season 
and we played old fashioned christmas carols instead of normal wedding marches and what not , 
and it was real nice , 
i liked that a lot . 
i liked the sound of the harpsichord . 
and it played by itself ? 
somebody played it . 
but you did n't have oboe or something with it ? 
just by itself , 
just by itself . 
it was real nice . 
i bet that was nice . 
it went well , 
it was a change from your traditional , normal stuff , since it was christmas time and , we had the church decorated with christmas hollies and poinsettias and stuff like that 
and so , we did the harpsichord with old-time traditional christmas carols , 
some , i recognize the melodies , and whatnot , 
but i did n't recognize the name . 
it was real nice . 
actually , i play the violin in a string quartet that often plays at weddings . 
so i always think it 's a nice break from the traditional organ or piano . 
and , it makes it nice . 
you can say classy 
or it makes an elegant wedding to have something else . 
it does . 
it really does 
and it has such a different sound to it , anyway . 
i do n't know the way it vibrates , 
it 's kind of haunting on some of the notes . 
i like it . 
i do n't know how else to explain . 
but , we 've got friends that are in the music business that go around dallas , 
they 're called odessa . 
it 's a husband and wife team that we 've known for years 
and we try to make contact with them periodically to see what 's going on and stuff , too , 
plus my husband 's real big into music , too , 
so . he does n't play anything , 
but , he just likes to listen . 
my oldest is getting to the point where he likes certain types of music and favorite songs 
and when they come on we have to turn the radio up full blast 
does it offer band , or some of the instruments ? 
my oldest is only nine . 
they have choir that they go to music class that they go to 
but he 's not old enough yet to get into the band yet . 
i think that starts in sixth grade . 
probably . 
but i do n't know . 
the only thing he 's shown interest in wanting to play is the drums 
cause my brother plays , 
and i do n't know if he 's really serious about it yet or not , 
it 's just one of those things i 'm just going to wait and see if he 's interested in something . 
you got a little ways to go , too . 
just a little bit . 
my oldest is eight 
and we 've , started her on piano 
but , it 's been fun , 
it 's a lot of work to see that she 's prepared 
but it 's been fun , 
it 's been fun , 
i feel like i 've learned a lot about the piano . 
i 've learned a lot about playing the piano . 
and it kind of makes me listen a little closer to the piano when i hear it at other places , or when i see and hear someone playing . 
i sort of watch their technique , too , and see if it corresponds up to what she 's learning . 
so , it 's been fun . 
i do n't know if any of mine will be interested in it 
let 's see , 
we keep our paper bags lined up in the garage for glass and , plastics 
and we make the dump over to the wal-mart bins there as soon as they 're full . 
i guess we collect milk cartons and whatever other plastics are acceptable . 
are you in the part of town where they have gotten into the other containers yet for recycling ? 
i did n't think that anybody had those at all yet . 
maybe they do n't . 
i know that was supposed to be in may 
and i could n't tell whether some parts of town had started it or if it was just everybody was waiting for the delivery of whatever those containers were . 
i have n't seen any , 
so i thought that it had all been delayed several times . 
so i have no idea what they look like 
and , i 'm kind of anxious to see them . 
i look at our big green containers , 
and i say , they work fine 
and i keep mine outside the garage so that i do n't have any odors 
it will be interesting to see how well that works 
and i 'm glad the community is doing it . 
it 's one of those things that kind of has to be forced on people . 
i do n't know what you saw back years ago , 
but for me the thing that strikes me growing up in rural south dakota where the farmers brought their eggs to town and the local hatchery would candle them and package them is that in the fifties you could say we had the recycling going on then that we should have now . which was all the milk bottles were glass 
and you got a nickel or dime , which in that time was a lot of money , when you returned them . 
pop bottles all had a deposit on them . 
of course . 
that , they did . 
actually , we had milk delivered to our house in glass bottles 
and we had a milk shoot at the side of the house . 
you could just leave the milkman a note on what you needed 
and so you just put the empty ones back out there 
and he took them away and put another gallon of glass bottle in there . 
i look back at , my childhood 
and i 'd say they were doing things then that we should be doing now 
and so it does n't bother me at all that we 're , kind of starting to put the pressure on people to get away from all this throwaway society that got developed in the sixties and seventies . 
it would be nice to see it take a good turn here . 
it seems like it started to take a turn and then it went away 
so i hope that this time it stays . 
just , to see stacks and stacks of newspapers is just amazing . 
actually when we go dump our things we collect newspapers , too , and then take them , 
seems like there 's a pretty continual flow of people coming and dumping glass and dumping plastics 
so that 's kind of encouraging . 
i did n't know what to expect . 
i 'll have to say the only one i 'm good at at this point is the newspaper . taking that to the boy scouts and my aluminum cans getting rid of those , 
but on the plastic i do n't have any habits there yet 
and guess i 'm waiting for the city to push me in that direction 
but , it just seems like on the larger scale that we always talk about in our society that economic strife things 
i guess they will shortly . 
because i remember searching ditches for beer bottles because they were worth money 
and it seems like beer drinkers are among the worst for throwing things out the window 
and so outside my little town , we would go out and look for long neck beer bottle because they were worth something . 
do you know , in tom thumb yesterday , i saw the return to the small coke bottles . 
and i do n't know if there 's a deposit on those or not . 
they 're back to glass , you 're saying ? 
let 's see , 
they 'd be maybe six ounce or ten ounce . sort of a small size 
and we did n't stop and look at them a long time 
and they were packed in the old sort of six pack stick them down sort of a basket type thing . 
the paper carton . 
i had n't seen that in a long time . 
you really look and say a lot of the things we need to do , we were doing 
and we had all the mechanisms in place with the fold up paper cartons , the wood racks which now , basically , you could turn them into the plastic ones that would hold twenty-four bottles . 
and , i 'm not really going back to good old days , 
but certainly we were doing things the way we think we should do them now . 
it will be interesting to see how , over the next year , this all works out because on the grass , i know your husband does n't really like the paper sacks . 
he does n't like the paper sacks 
but he likes to pick the grass up , too . 
i generally listen to neal sperry on saturdays 
and neal 's a person who says , i like to pick it up 
but i do n't believe in throwing it into the landfill , 
so i have my compost pile , 
but most of us do n't have the sufficient , lot size to do that . 
so i 'm glad the city 's willing to take that on . 
that 's nice . 
i guess they dump it the same place , 
i wonder where they dump that . 
there 's someplace , 
they just take their hay and just build a big mound of it 
and it naturally composts or stores 
and so all you have to do is just place it somewhere and churn it 
and it will naturally decompose , 
so you just have to kind of keep in separated 
and then who knows how they process it from there and what they turn it into , 
but it 's certainly usable material . 
they have this day now , that it 's separate from the other trash pick up . 
it 's one thing to send grass there , 
but i 've trimmed trees and other things which end up being something that , clearly wo n't decompose nearly as rapidly , 
i really have n't seen any movies lately , 
so when the computer picked this one , i was a little bit surprised , 
but , i think i have n't been to the movie theater here in about six months , 
but the last movies that i 've seen were probably on video . 
we rent a lot of videos too . 
i have two little babies 
and we saw one movie recently 
and that was the terminator movie which i did n't like after all . 
i have n't seen the terminator movie , 
and that 's kind of blood and guts , is n't it . 
i do n't particularly care for that sort of stuff . 
i do n't either . 
on all the advertisements arnold schwarzenegger says he does n't kill anybody in the movie . 
he does n't . 
he maims them . 
he maims them pretty good , does n't he ? 
i think he shoots off their knee caps for the most part . in the movie . 
i saw sleeping with the enemy . 
i saw it , 
i have n't seen that one yet . 
couple weeks ago i rented it and watched it 
and i was pretty disappointed in it because i was told by several people that it 's pretty scary and intense 
and i was pretty disappointed in it . 
it 's a good movie , 
but , i guess that they built me up too much . for my expectations in it there . 
with all the commercials and everything . 
that 's one we want to see . 
i want to see dances with wolves . 
but , we have n't seen that one yet , either . 
i have n't seen it either , 
but i 've heard that it 's real long . that it 's a good movie , but it 's long , 
three hours . 
that 's what i heard , too . 
we 've got to get it at a time when we can put our kids to bed and stay up late to watch it . 
that 's right . 
so , we saw the , movie with sylvester stallone , oscar . 
that 's right . 
oscar . 
supposed to be his debut in comedy . 
which was an interesting movie , but not very funny . 
i know my daughter saw that 
and she liked it 
did she ? 
it was an amusing movie . 
i guess maybe it would have been better if we 'd have been at the theater as opposed to just at the house watching it with no one else around . 
and , of course , i get to watch all these movies like look who 's talking and look who 's talking , too 
because i have a ten year old 
so , we watch a lot of movies around that category that she can watch . 
my son just turned two 
and so the little mermaid is now our favorite movie . 
we seen the little mermaid , too . 
little mermaid and peter pan are his two favorites that we 've got . 
and i think there 's some good disney movies fixing to come out on video shipwrecked . 
i did n't hear that was coming out . 
it 's fixing to come out on video 
and i ca n't think of the other one that 's fixing to come out . 
they just had the rescuers movie 
that was a disney movie , was n't it . 
i think i heard that was just out . 
he does n't sit still for the whole movie , yet , 
but he likes to listen to the music and stuff if there 's a lot of that in the movie . 
i 'm glad to know that there 's somebody else out there that does n't get to go to the movie theater . 
i tell you , 
my kids are just small babies 
and , i tell you , 
we really want to go a lot 
the movie comes out quicker than you can go see it . sometimes . 
that 's right . 
and then they go to the dollar movies . 
that seems to happen . 
i noticed that dances with wolves was playing at the granada theater . 
and someone said that was a lot of fun to go do . 
you can have dinner and everything while you watch the movie . 
i thought that might be kind of fun to do . 
that does sound fun . 
and , of course , you need a baby-sitter for that . 
definitely . 
but 
i 'd really like to get out to the movies more often . 
course , it 's so expensive , now , too that you ca n't hardly afford it . 
i know we get discount tickets where my husband works , 
but , other than that it just seems like it 's so expensive . 
and then the popcorn and everything else , 
you almost ca n't afford to do it . no matter what . 
that 's right . 
we went on vacation couple months ago , 
and we got to go see what about bob ? 
that was kind of a funny movie with richard dreyfuss and bill murray . 
that was fun . 
i do n't think that i 've ever heard of that movie . 
richard dreyfuss is a , psychiatrist 
and bob is his patient 
and bob follows him on vacation . 
that 's the one where they burn down the house or something 
the house explodes ? 
that 's the one . 
i just forgot the title of it . 
. it 's supposed to be a real scary one . 
here 's another one that i 've seen . 
i ca n't remember the title of it , either . 
must have left an impression . 
seems to be a topic that 's going to probably take about a generation to catch on or maybe a generation to two . 
and we may have to do it out of necessity as far as moving that time schedule up . 
it does seem to be a lot of habits to break . 
i was n't raised as a kid on it , 
but my kids are 
and so they tended to want to grab the aluminum cans when that was one of the first things to do , 
and we were doing all right there until the price dropped out 
and they were n't worth anything anymore . 
it took us , almost a year to get a garbage sack full . 
we just do n't drink that many . 
so as far as at home use we 'll pick up a six pack every once in a while or for whatever occasion of doctor pepper or something 
at the time it was still about forty or fifty cents a pound , 
and we came out with about a dollar , 
it just really was n't worth it . 
and a lot of hassle all year round 
of course to them a dollar was a dollar at four and five years old . 
that was a big deal , 
but we decided it was n't worth us keeping it 
and then t i started keeping up with cans there , 
so occasionally i 'll bring whatever i 've got laying around the car or the like and throw them in there . 
least it gets back into the system , 
but , as far as a habit at the house , i have n't started on anything other than just whatever the city wants to pick up . 
have you all got the individual containers yet ? 
i guess maybe this week someone may start getting them if the truck that picks them up is outfitted in time . 
i 'm not sure all what we 're going to have to do , whether we have three separate containers , 
i really do n't understand that part on what they 've told you to separate everything . 
if i recall , it 's been a long time . 
they 're way behind schedule on that particular part of it . 
they were fine on the big green containers 
but seems like they said they were just going to have a bin and all different types would go in there and then that they would sort it as needed . 
at the time anyway , the thinking was that there was too much not getting sorted properly and that at the collection sites where everything 's clearly labeled and people that happen to go to that kind of trouble to do it , happen to do it pretty well those are okay to have the general public doing the sorting . 
the success rate of getting it sorted properly seemed to be poor , 
so they felt that having one guy just sit there and run through it real quick was better than having a household try it . 
but i do n't know , 
that sounds like an awful lot of labor to sort the entire week 's worth of trash for a house . 
it would get messy , too . 
i know other places when they recycle , 
they have to wash out their glass jars and whatnot . which we 're not in the habit of doing . 
that 's true . 
i was brought up long time ago , that they did n't even have cans . 
they had bottles 
and you 'd return them to the grocery store 
and you 'd get our money back 
and that was all well and good . 
they do n't seem to still be doing that . 
if they could just eliminate the cans and use glass , 
but , i guess this day and age they do n't . 
they do n't do that . 
we live next to a set of railroad tracks 
and it seemed to be a very popular thing for people driving by that highway there , by our tracks to throw the bottles at the tracks and try to break them , 
but they were n't that successful , 
so there were a lot of bottles to be returned 
and we just walk about a half a mile in each direction and gathered up enough to buy whatever we wanted for the day 
i think kids do n't appreciate , maybe the value of money , that it 's so little that they do n't care , 
they can get more somewhere else . 
i wonder , 
but , we did buy a can crusher 
and we are crushing cans 
and we buy the soda when it 's on sale for ninety-nine cents , 
so i would say in the last three years , we 've probably used a lot more cans than ever before . 
it was just easier to do that than to open a large liter bottle and then have it go flat . 
so that 's the main reason we , sort of are into cans at this point rather than the liter bottles . 
where do you take your cans ? 
as you say , it takes a while to build it up . 
do you subscribe to magazines yourself ? 
i do n't subscribe to any magazines at home , because we get so many at work that i need to read that , i just do n't take any at home . 
i see . 
i get mccall 's . 
of course , anything that appeals to the homemaker since that 's my main line of interest . 
and then once in a while i 'll pick up a working woman or something and realize why i do n't want to go back to work . what i enjoy about staying home . 
and i read magazines mainly because they 're fast and if i want to relax while i watch t v , 
of course , i 'm one of those that does two things at once , 
and i read good housekeeping and better homes and mccall 's . 
and i like them because they 're kind of short and to the subject . 
i used to take mccall 's and good housekeeping and several magazines like that a few years ago at home . 
and then you stopped them all . 
but 
the subscriptions ran out 
and i never renewed them . 
and i found that i really did n't have time at home since i work , to read them . 
i find that about two years is probably my max on subscribing to one in particular 
and then i kind of get turned off by it . other than good housekeeping . 
good housekeeping is the one that kind of sets around for when i really have time and i really want to read something . 
i do n't get into books too often because i have so many things that i stay occupied with on a general basis , 
and we travel a lot 
so i enjoy reading parts on travel in the various different ones . 
and i get into newspapers , 
so i guess that kind of tells you what kind of person i am . 
i read it fast and put it down . 
when i had my magazines at home , i would find that i kind of skimmed through them and looked at the pictures , 
and if something caught my eye , then i might read something , 
but otherwise than that they were not too useful to me 
that 's what i do . 
i got some good recipes from them sometimes , 
you clip recipes 
and you save them forever 
and you never really use them . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
and then every so often you weed through them 
and you think , where did i ever put that recipe . 
but that 's mainly my whole idea on short subject reading and things like this . 
i subscribe , like i said , to a few 
and once in a while i buy that new magazine called first on the newsstands or something like that . 
but i kind of stay with my own subject matter what pertains to my daily life at the present time . 
since i work with computers during my work , i have to keep up on all the new computer equipment and software and everything . 
and i have to read the magazines such as byte , and computer world and mac world and all of these , magazines such as that , 
i can see that it will be a very long time , probably , before i subscribe to any magazines at home . 
sometimes , if you 're in public transportation i know that people will read them on something like that . 
i can just dump them at the other end , 
and i do n't have to carry them back with me . 
that 's right . 
i do that when we travel . 
no matter what it is , 
air travel or anything 
if i go on an airplane ride or something , i 'll stop in and pick up a cosmopolitan or something to read on the airplane . 
i 'll buy a crossword puzzle magazine every now and then . 
that 's when you really have time . 
i got into computer work somewhat , 
we have our own computer system at home 
and i tried reading the magazines hoping i would get more from it 
and it was just above my head without having someone there to give me the advice as i went along . 
it was kind of a little bit more than what i needed , 
so i never did get into them . 
, when i bought the computer , all of a sudden i was receiving them , for some unknown reason , through the mail . 
i think they all thought , we have a live one . 
she 'll subscribe . 
but they were wrong . 
i never got into them . 
i guess we might as well end our conversation at this point . 
it was nice talking with you . 
it was nice to talk with you , too . 
thank you . 
the aids issue is a bit of a problem . 
i guess the first thing that comes to my mind is the financial end . 
and how can a country stand to spend as much or much more than they already are on such a problem , 
but , then that kind of thinking is also tempered with the knowledge , or at least the rumor that we 're not spending as much per afflicted person on cancer . 
take breast cancer , for instance . 
it seems to be doing much more damage and affecting many more people than aids . 
and yet more people die of it , 
aids has more money than breast cancer . 
that 's interesting , is n't it , 
if it 's true . 
i 've always heard these things . 
i 've never bothered to dig it out and make sure , 
we think that 's the world 's worst thing 
so let 's give money to aids . 
and yet we 've had breast cancer problems for years . 
course , one of the shows i saw was taking it from the angle that , since it does n't effect men , it 's not going to get funded . 
what did you think about that idea ? 
i thought , that might be possible since there are a lot of men in control of that kind of thing . 
but then i got to thinking , the number one killer of men seems to be the prostate 
and there 's only one test that just recently got developed a antibody test for the antigen in the blood 
and that 's fairly recent . 
and yet men have been dying from prostate cancer for years . 
they 've not really given it attention either , 
so it 's not really cured , 
it 's not that heavily funded either 
and then that seems to be one of the major problems that men have in the realm of cancer , 
so , i do n't know . 
i guess there 's just some strange public opinion as to who they want to give to . how they fund whatever illness they wish . 
it 's kind of hard to get an even keel on that . 
it 's really hard to say , 
there 's a hundred thousand per year affected by this one 
so let 's give it this amount , 
and then this other one 's only a tenth of that , 
so give it a tenth of that and just keep doling it out that way 
i 'm glad i 'm not the one that 's in charge of making those decisions . 
you wish that there could just be money for all these problems because they 're all so serious . 
it 's not so serious until it affects your family 
and then all of a sudden it 's the most important thing . 
so i would hate to have that responsibility just personally 
but then , again , we really do have it as a society to decide which things we need to address . 
i guess it frightens me to think of so many people with aids and with cancer 
and many of those things if they 're not able to be insured then the country 's going to pay for it one way or the other . whether it 's through prevention or treatment or just helping the people when they are not able to take care of themselves . 
it seems like one way or the other we 're going to end up paying for it . 
that 's true . 
so it 's kind of a unfair advantage , as it were , 
but , the other thing that i thought of on this is , i wonder if there is n't enough money in our economy or in our system . 
it seems like there 's so much that goes to things that do n't really do a whole lot of good . 
they 're kind of nice . 
but , we have such an affluent , society that i wonder if we took a little from here and there and the other if we might wind up with a cure for just about everything . 
of course , then we would n't have any room to put people , 
just change our priorities a little bit . 
you hear these ridiculous figures for pizza 
or you hear these phenomenal amounts of dollars spent for this , that or the other 
and then you have all the arts that are nice and aesthetic , 
but are they that enhancing for the masses . 
they certainly do well for those who go to the symphony orchestra and all that , 
since i initiated the call , i guess i 'll start off first . 
number one , i have absolutely no problem with random testing . 
i spend an awful lot of time traveling on the job 
and i would be very comfortable if they would do drug testing for , particularly airline pilots and such . 
i 'd feel much more comfortable than i do now , based on what i 've been hearing in the newspapers . 
so i really do n't have a problem with it . 
i do n't either . 
i do n't work , 
i stay home with my children . 
but my husband works 
and they do have that at his place of employment 
and neither of us have a problem with it . 
it 's a scary thing to know that you just do n't know what people are doing before they go to work . 
there have been so many , 
probably just for our own safety when we 're traveling and things that would be something i 'd like to know that 's going on . 
my job is i 'm supervisor of personnel safety for the world 's largest paint company , 
so it 's very near and dear to me when we start talking about drug testing for random sampling and testing for cause , this type of thing . 
and even in our field we have people that are in very high risk jobs 
and we , at the present time , do not have random testing . 
and i am pushing towards that . 
i honestly feel if people have nothing to hide , they should n't have a problem with it . 
and if they are trying to hide something , then i have to know that , because we 're talking major liabilities . 
not only with themselves , but with other employees . 
they 're talking about sports and sports personalities and all this stuff that i would much prefer having doctors and airline pilots tested on a random basis . 
i have a real fear , that at some point something 's going to happen . 
and they 're showing it with aids , 
they ought to start doing something with the drugs . 
so i really have no problem with it . 
it 's unfortunate that everyone does n't have that opinion . 
i 've heard some people just talking in our group of friends that they just feel it 's an invasion of privacy and things like that , 
they feel that 's not fair and whatever , 
but those kind of things i 'd like to know myself . 
i 've had a lot of dental work done , 
and the last dentist did n't even use gloves at all , 
so that kind of thing really kind of concerns me . 
that scares me because if that 's the way they are , 
if i were a dentist , i 'd want to be protected , too . 
you would think so . 
and i worked for a dentist 
you come in contact with a lot of blood and things like that 
and it 's real , real dangerous . 
i would think , 
airlines just drive me crazy . 
people are afraid to fly now just because they do n't know what their pilot 's been doing and things like that 
i do n't know . 
where you 're located , i do know texas instruments has random drug testing . 
and i think they 've had it for several years . 
and their program they had , i do n't think had a lot of problems associated with it , 
but my brother-in-law happens to work there 
and it sounded very positive . 
and i think it 's great . 
i would encourage it . 
i 'm pushing our company towards that . 
because a lot of people obviously are trying to hide that from their employer and friends and family and things 
and too many people are just dying . particularly in our area . 
i do n't know what the crime is like where you are , 
but the crime rate here is just astronomical . 
ours is changing . 
ours is changing , 
it 's increasing . 
i live in a very nice suburb 
and it 's unbelievable what 's going on and the selling of drugs . 
it 's just too loose . 
it 's too free . 
i have two very little children , under two 
and i got a piece of paper from my husband 's office , 
it 's talking about these drug tattoos now that they have got . 
it looks like a sticker 
is kind of fun . 
it 's best done when you have leisure time 
and i had more of that in my childhood days than i have now . 
and i grew up in an area that was just a few feet from a rather large lake , 
and a few more miles from that was a even larger lake 
and we had a variety of boats at our disposal . 
i worked for a camp for a number of years . 
my father was on staff there , 
and we had every kind of things from canoes to paddle boats , sailboats , speedboats , 
you name it , they had it 
and we did a lot of , water sports . 
we spent about a summer 
couple of guys restored an old wooden boat that was built back in the mid-thirties and got a new canvas sail for it and had a real big old four- foot center board that went down in the middle to keep you upright when the waves , or the wind came from the side 
and we got that thing in the water and had a real good time with it . 
if you ever got it dumped over , though , it was a mess to get back up . 
it was n't like the newer ones that have nice chambers that keep it afloat or keep it upright again . 
this one you had to work with . 
you get out of the water again and get it upright . 
and sailing was kind of nice 
to learn the maneuvers you had to work your way down a lake or work back up against the wind , as it were , tacking back and forth 
and more than once we 'd get out there on a really stormy day 
and the storm or the wind was due to the front blowing 
and as soon as the front came over , it was calm . 
so you 're out in the middle of nowhere with a paddle 
and you paddle your way back in and hope it does n't start raining on you right away . 
and that did n't always work . 
we oftentimes got wet , . 
but it 's a nice hobby to have . 
nowadays i do n't think i could afford the boat or the time , 
nor do we live that close to a lake anymore , 
things change , i guess . 
what are your memories of boating , 
my husband 's family had a motor boat when we got engaged 
and they took us out on the lake several times . 
and i really did enjoy that . 
i do n't know that i ever learned to drive it or anything , 
but we did some water skiing , of course , and , driving around the lake in the boat 
and just the basic safety rules and things i found real interesting . , 
they just did n't patrol you like they did with the automobile or whatever . 
the laws were there 
and if you did n't obey them there were a lot of accidents . 
that 's true . 
but i found the motor boating was real fun . 
i remember learning how to ski , 
i guess i was seven or eight years old 
and the lake that we learned on was the smaller of the two that we had access to 
and it was maybe fifteen , twenty acres 
and it had a lot of turtles in it . 
and i got all ready to go 
and i was down in the water and set to go 
and just as that boat took off , a turtle bit me in the middle of the back . 
it did n't hurt too much , 
but it bit enough to where i let go . 
and the boat went off without me 
and i reached back there and pushed him away and got out of the water a while 
and , it did n't even leave a mark . 
it was just a little nibble 
and so i told everybody what happened 
and they go , . 
and so i get back down in there 
and i 'll be if he did n't do it again . 
this time a little earlier 
i had let go before then and , before they took off this time and swatted him away . 
so i moved over a few feet in the water and got out of his little realm where he was living underneath the dock and managed to get up . 
did n't go very far , 
but i got up . 
and it was a nice long skiing career , 
but now i 've gotten to where skiing just kind of wears me out more than it does thrill me . 
i 've , done about all i dare do on skis . 
skiing on one and jumping around here and there 
and i know how you can get injured doing much more than that 
and i just ca n't risk it right now being a head of the family and the breadwinner and all that . 
just ca n't take the risk i did as a dumb teenager , i guess . 
life just changes a little bit in that respect . 
they 'll allow you to ski backwards . 
i have n't managed to get a hold on that craft yet , 
that sounds like a real challenge . 
it would be kind of nice . 
i had n't quite figured out , 
i do n't have anybody to teach me either . 
that 's another little thing . 
you need somebody to kind of tell you what to do , 
but , just from what i 've seen , you just kind of work your way up to it and turn around real quick grab the rope behind you and then just let go real quick and let it whip you around . 
but i do n't know , 
maybe someday , i 'll get back to that after the kids are up and grown and the monies are there to get away for times on end , weekend or something . 
where is your favorite place to go ? 
we have n't traveled outside the united states that much . 
we usually take family type vacations . 
we 're looking forward to one in october to disneyworld in florida . 
that 's great . 
we have a nine year old . 
have you ever been there ? 
when both of my kids were much younger . 
and this time we 're going to be going with just one daughter 
and she 's nine , 
so it ought to just be a ball . 
that 's a perfect age for disneyworld . 
i think so , too . 
that 's great . 
so we 've been there a number of times 
and we 're going next year . 
we have a business trip every fall . 
we go on a lot of business trips . 
i do n't work . 
so you travel a lot . 
we do . 
my husband travels a couple times a month 
and in the position he 's in , they do n't care if i go along . 
so it 's great . 
i just kind of join up when it 's something interesting 
and disneyworld is the one for a week next year 
and it will be at this time of the year 
and this year matter of fact we 're leaving next saturday for new orleans . 
that will be fun , too . 
have you ever been there ? 
we went years ago . 
we have n't been lately 
and i know they 've changed it a lot and upgraded everything , 
but we used to have a lot of fun there . 
we went there once . 
in fact , we had been in dallas 
and we were on our way home 
and we were driving 
and we said let 's go to new orleans . 
and then i said , i 'll going along , 
i hope it 's swimming season 
because it was n't a tremendous amount of things that i wanted to do there . 
if you do n't like the night life and the antique shopping , there is n't much there , 
but , that can be fun . 
we do like the night life , to an extent 
and they do have a mardi gras night planned . 
and i 'm kind of anxious for that , 
but yours to disneyworld sounds a little bit better . 
did you know that next week there 's several t v shows coming from there in celebration of their anniversary . 
i know this is a real good time to go , because they are having so many activities and special shows . 
be excited about all of it . 
if you 're working , then you 're probably on a limited amount of time per year that you can go . 
not really , 
we 're doing the same thing . tying it in with my husband 's business trip 
and i just save vacation for things like that . 
and just travel whenever we can . 
when i heard my topic today , i thought , that 's my favorite 
how easy . 
and really at our point of life our children are grown 
and it has just worked out really well with this position he 's in . because i can go at a spur of the moment or what have you 
and it depends where he 's going whether or not i decide to go along 
but i do like to travel 
i do n't mind the pool life at all during the day . 
and i like to sight see 
and i love to shop . 
that 's perfect . 
what more could you ask for ? 
that 's right , 
and then got to pick and choose the places . 
and one of my very favorite is las vegas . 
i would have to say we both end up going to las vegas probably once every year and a half . 
and presently we have quite a few frequent flyer miles 
and so i 've just requested that they send us two of our coach tickets 
because we have a lot of flying with continental 
and they 're recommending that you use those because they do n't know the future of continental . 
it 's kind of shaky . 
and i said now that we have all the miles , we better start using them . 
that 's true . 
it really is . 
so we are thinking that we might go to las vegas during the winter this year sometime for just kind of a quick trip . 
when we normally go that way , we like to go to california at the same time , because we really do n't get out there as often as you could probably from texas . 
our last big trip , we drove through new mexico and colorado and went to the grand canyon and , back through silverton and durango 
and it was fun . 
it was so relaxing and a really neat part of the country 
and the kids were old enough to really enjoy it . 
i think that 's a good trip . 
we did , what we sometimes do since we are in ohio 
and it takes a while just to even get to what i would call the more picturesque part of the country , 
once we flew to denver 
and then we rented a car for two weeks 
and we went through the northern route and through utah and as far west as las vegas 
and then we returned through new mexico that you just mentioned . 
and it was just great . 
there 's too much to see really . 
i think i would like something like an economy car that gets really good mileage and one that 's really reliable . 
i think probably not a brand new car , 
but maybe something like a nissan sentra . or something like that 
and , of course , it has to have air-conditioning . 
air-conditioning and a radio a m , f m and a cassette player 
and what else do i want . 
does it have to be a special color ? . 
i would think kind of a subdued color would be nice . 
it sounds like something your husband would drive ? . 
that 's what it would be for is for him to drive back and forth to work . 
i do n't think we 're looking for another car right now because we just bought one , 
but when we were looking we were looking for something that had enough seat belts , of course , 
and we wanted air-conditioning and a five speed 
and that was kind of iffy , 
but that made it better economically , 
i think that 's something we might want , too , is some kind of standard transmission at least rather than automatic . 
we 'll probably have to look for another second car sometime 
and we 'd look for about what you 're looking for . 
but probably real cheap , too . 
it would n't be a , used car , 
but , . 
i think we would want one that , even though it was a compact car or whatever that it would still be nice enough that you could take someone in it and not be embarrassed . 
would you like four doors 
or does n't really matter . 
probably that would be a good idea , 
it 's hard for people to get in with a two door sometimes . 
that 's right . 
so if we wanted it to take people out that 's a good thought . 
that had n't crossed my mind . 
it would be fun just to win one , would n't it ? 
i would go for that . 
that would be great . 
i think that 's all that we need to say . 
thank you for calling . 
we 'll talk to you later . 
i work at t i 
and we have of course , started random drug testing here 
and i have n't gotten called yet , 
but i feel that it 's pretty good if they feel like there is a vast majority of the people at the company doing drugs . 
do they feel that way ? 
i think that they thought that there was a lot of drug usage here at t i , 
but i think our latest statistic said something like ninety-nine point nine eight percent were testing negative on all the testing . 
i think it 's a good idea just because i 'm opposed to the drugs . 
i think it can cause a lot of problems even though they think they can handle it . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't really liken it to alcohol 
but , yet that can be carried to an extreme , too . 
so i think it 's a good idea 
i do n't know that their job would be at risk , 
because i think they may put them into some sort of a program to get them off of drugs . 
i would think that , 
is that how they do it at t i maybe . 
at t i , if you get called in and you test positive for drugs , then you 're put on a program 
and you go through the program 
and then you 're called six months after you complete the program 
and if you test positive , then you 're terminated . 
, i guess i draw a hard line , 
but i 'm in favor of that type of thing . 
that you have people out there that are responsible for certain things 
and you expect them to do their job 
and it is possible that they ca n't do as good a job as they might do . 
that 's right . 
and , of course they can also cause injury to other people . 
if they 're not fully functional mentally while they 're doing their job . they could cause serious injury to another people . 
and you never know 
they could just go off the deep end on something whatever they 're taking at the time 
and it would be out of the question . 
that 's right . 
i sub in the schools 
they talk a lot about drugs there 
and i think it 's good that they 're trying to start some programs down in the elementary schools . 
but i think they can test all they want for drugs , 
and i know many of them are doing it . 
i know my son has had to do it for both sam 's and wal-mart 
and i do n't know how many others are doing that 
and i think that 's good because so many of the kids that are on them are sort of bums that they need to get their life straightened up at an early age 
that 's right . 
and , i do n't know , 
it 's just a problem that no one is sure just how to handle i think . 
i think personally i 'm for it . 
there 's several reason why i could think of right now why we should n't have it such as drug testing runs approximately a thousand dollars a person every time you do it . 
it 's that high ? 
and 
it 's very expensive . 
i did n't realize it was that expensive . 
it 's not like a normal urinalysis 
it 's very expensive to run them . 
and i did n't get a raise this year , 
because , nobody in our company got a raise . 
but , yet they spend all the money on drug testing 
just lucky to have jobs . 
and if they were n't spending all the money on drug testing , people could have got a raise . 
i think that 's more of a personal view of mine other than a we should have drug testing because there 's really a problem 
and i know that . 
but then , i have other views to it . 
and sam 's and wal-mart are owned by the same people 
he took one for , wal-mart for job hiring 
and then sam 's called him 
and he took another one 
and i do n't know why they both made him do that since it was so close together . 
because if it 's a thousand dollars , that 's a thousand dollars they wasted . 
theirs might not run a thousand dollars . 
from what i understanding here at t i , they run close to a thousand dollars an employee . 
i do n't know , 
that 's just guessing it . 
maybe they run a lot of other tests , 
or maybe it 's under a health type program that it would catch a lot of things . 
but 
do you have any hobbies ? 
i do . 
what are yours ? 
china painting and ceramics . 
how great . 
i enjoy it . 
ceramic painting . 
i enjoy the china more . 
the china more . 
and now that i have my eyes , corrected to the point that i can see the delicate part of china painting , i do enjoy it . 
how did you ever get into that ? 
that sounds so interesting . 
my husband kept begging me , 
and he 's been dead now for twenty years , 
so you understand that this was a long time ago . 
but he finally brought me the china , the book , the brushes 
and he said i have made arrangements for your lessons . 
and i said i 'll do it for three months 
and if i do n't like it , that 's it . 
i painted an awful lot until his death , which was several years . 
and it has just been the most relaxing , enjoyable , self-satisfying thing i 've had . 
do you do it just for yourself , 
or do you do it to give as gifts , 
or do you actually sell it ? 
i have sold quite a bit . 
i give a lot to our two daughters that are grown and have their home , 
and then i just have the rest of my house with lot of hand painting in it . 
do you work outside of the home ? 
i have just retired . 
you 've just retired . 
what a great hobby . 
it 's a great hobby , 
but do n't retire . 
do n't retire . 
i have stayed home for about the last nine years . 
we 've transferred around , 
and our last area was in a rural section right on the lake on lake erie . 
so the lake life appealed to me , 
and my husband 's working 
and he left it up to me if i worked or not . 
so , in my spare time , i love to sew . 
there are n't too many people around anymore that really enjoy sewing , 
but i do make all my own clothes 
and we recently purchased a new home , 
so i enjoy doing my toppers for my window applications and things like that . 
but just when i thought i really enjoyed my hobby , yours sounds great . 
my sister is the seamstress of the two of us . 
but she does n't china paint 
so we both have our expertise side . 
that is excellent . 
what part of ohio are you in ? 
i 'm in the suburb of cleveland 
and i 'm about fifteen miles , probably , from downtown cleveland , something like that . 
and cleveland is located right on lake erie 
and prior to this , we were fifty miles west from here . 
so we were right on the lake . 
and cleveland is n't all as bad as what you 've heard . 
what 's that , 
and you do find people into the crafts and various things for spare time , 
but , i have never heard and i have actually never run into anyone into the china painting 
and i 'm just intrigued with it . 
if you ever start , be sure and start with a large flat plate . 
you 're not cramped on these smaller objects . 
where you 're getting into the delicate work . 
that 's right . 
where did you first get your lessons from ? 
in abilene , texas . 
through an adult ed , or strictly a china type , 
she just taught china painting . 
how marvelous . 
then we had so much fun there , 
i had a friend from albany , which is about thirty-six miles away , 
and we would meet every thursday morning at our instructor 's home , because she did our firing for us , 
and she would help us 
and we bought lots of equipment from her , supplies 
and it was just such a delightful time . 
and it 's so nice , 
beg pardon ? 
it must be so nice for you , now that you 're retired . 
i have been a little bit negligent about it because i was so tired when i had to go to work after my husband 's death . 
so i have put it aside for a little while , 
but i have just found me an instructor to get started again , 
is n't that great . 
and you 'll probably really regain your enthusiasm for it once you get into a class again . 
of course , i just have one beautiful with peonies , umbrella stand , 
and i have two daughters 
and me too , because i eat out a lot . 
i travel , 
i do about forty percent of my time on the road . 
so you eat all your meals out . 
i eat a lot of meals out , 
i 'm also married 
and my wife is an a one cook , 
but she enjoys eating out , 
so i have to share it with her . 
and actually it 's very easy for me , because i make it a practice when i am out , 
i eat differently than what i could eat at home or around here . 
so , i look for just about anything , 
and it 's a lot of fun . 
i was going to ask you , 
could you go to nice places , 
and it 's really great . 
i like different types of food . 
what are the memorable places you 've eaten ? 
you name it . 
let 's see , 
you 've got one down near , addison , 
there 's two restaurants that i particularly like that every time i get into texas or i get into atlanta , georgia , i make sure i go , 
and that 's houston 's . 
houston 's , 
it 's a great place . 
it 's great . 
there 's a restaurant right outside of reading , pennsylvania that does not look like a restaurant that you would really want to recommend to a lot of people . 
but it is fantastic . 
there 's a restaurant in panama city . 
of course , not too many people want to rush back to the country panama . 
i grew up in panama city . 
this is the country panama , 
i get it . 
but i have gotten to quite a few . 
and i go to canada and get quite a few restaurants up there . 
and i know the locations , 
and i know the places , 
but lot of times i do n't remember the names . 
i 'd have to go back through some expense reports . 
but particularly , down in your area , i 'm looking for some more restaurants . 
so , i do n't know what 's down there , the ones out in addison . 
do you like mexican ? 
do you like mexican food . 
not particularly 
which one were you going to recommend ? 
there 's so many places here , 
it 's just lots of good mexican restaurants here . 
but in the addison about everything that you could want in dallas is in the addison area , anyway . 
now there 's a new italian place sfuzi 
but it has a great reputation as one of the best restaurants in dallas , 
and now there 's one in addison . 
i 'm writing it down . 
it 's s f u z i . 
and it 's in addison , 
and it 's a great place . 
also a great place that they have cajun food is copelands . 
i 've been there . 
now i really like copelands . 
i 've been there . 
i think it 's an old schoolhouse . 
i know , 
i do n't like that place . 
i like the food , 
but i do n't care for the clowning around . 
when i went , i thought the food was not good . 
magic time machine is the place you 're thinking of , 
that 's it , 
that 's it . 
i 've had excellent food there . 
the people drove me crazy first of all 
but then i just thought the food was over priced for what it was . 
that 's great . 
italian is fine . 
do you like southwestern ? 
now there 's a good place in addison too called blue mesa grill that 's on belt line that 's close to houston 's , as a matter of fact . 
and it 's great , 
sometimes i 've been when i thought , it was n't as good , 
but i went there recently , 
and i thought , this really is good . 
so that 's a very good place to eat , the blue mesa grill . 
this is great . 
this is going to give me some more places to go . 
a whole new , dining experience . 
i guess our time 's about up , 
they have n't beeped us , have they ? 
they do n't always . 
i thought sometimes they say this is three minutes or whatever . 
they 've been doing that when the circuits are busy 
and other than that , they leave you go about five minutes , 
and then , that 's about it . 
i guess that 's what they need for their machines to get everything down pat , 
it was a pleasure talking to you . 
thanks for calling for helping us out . 
you bet , 
how would you feel about sending an elderly family member to a nursing home ? 
i do n't feel very good about it , 
but i think that at some times it can be the right thing to do . 
we sent my grandfather to a nursing home at the point when he was really incapable of caring for himself anymore . 
he actually died a few months after that , 
at least in retrospect , it was the right thing to do 
because he was either in a nursing home or a hospital or something else that he would have been spending most of his time in those days . 
and what type of recommendations did you have when you decided where to place him ? 
he wanted to get into a mennonite nursing home which is very popular and hard to get into and had a ten year waiting list 
we wound up just choosing another mennonite nursing home that was easier to get into . 
it was even mennonite related , 
it was actually not a particularly great nursing home . 
mostly the thing was that it was available when we needed it , because he suddenly got sick and needed to be put in . 
what do you think ? 
my grandmother lived with us until august , 
and we made the decision to put her in a nursing home . 
she has leukemia 
and the rest of her family and her regular doctors and everybody she trusted and knew was in dayton , and were several thousand miles away 
so i made the decision to put her in a nursing home , 
and my sister being on the other end found one that she could have what was called an independent living facility . 
she had her own little room and did n't have to share it with anyone and could bring in her own chair and t v set 
that 's important i would say . 
and the other major factor is that she needs blood transfusions every week to ten days , and would have to be hospitalized a day or two , 
so in this facility they can do it right there from her own room 
so she did n't have to be transported back and forth . 
so , she 's been there since august the thirteenth and seems to have adjusted pretty well . 
it 's not her favorite place to be in . 
she 'd much rather be here with me . 
and i 've got little children here who needed me here 
she needed somebody to watch her twenty-four hours a day . 
and that becomes difficult then . 
she was falling down and hemorrhaging 
and all kinds of physical problems , 
so it just became too much for me to handle , 
even though i would have liked to have had her stay , with her health being what it was she could n't anymore . 
we tried to convince my grandfather to live with us at several points during the last few years of his life , 
but he was essentially too proud and too independent so that even though his heart was getting incredibly weak and his knees were going bad he lived in his own house as long as he could 
but he was living alone , had an upstairs apartment , could barely make it up the steps to the top without a great deal of pain , 
eventually things just went too far 
and he allowed himself to be put into a nursing home . 
i think sometimes when people get to be a certain age , other people have to kind of help them make decisions . 
it sure would n't have been granny 's decision to leave us and go back to a nursing home , 
but she 's accepted it real well now 
that 's right that the children have some responsibility , too , to their parents and such , to help decide what 's the right thing . 
we enjoyed having her here , 
but we feel she 's much safer where she is now . 
she still continues to fall , 
but when she does a nurse is right there to help her 
and i know she 's eating the right things , 
and her doctor 's right there where he can come in and check on her , 
so . it became dangerous for us to keep transporting her back and forth in the car because she was so wobbly and needed a walker or a wheel chair 
so , i think she 'll adjust , 
have you done any painting projects lately ? 
this is a great topic for me , because i just did my first two painting projects ever . 
was not a big deal 
what kind of painting was it ? 
two little deals , 
i helped someone repaint an apartment , 
and it was very easy . 
was it ? 
so you 'd have to hire someone if you needed to paint inside your house or something 
but i know i can do it . 
and the second one was i bought some toys at a craft fair . 
they 're unfinished wooden book ends and stuff for a little girl for christmas , 
and so i decided to paint them , 
and that was n't as easy as painting the apartment . 
what kind of paint did you use for the bookends ? 
that 's half the problem right there is that it was a oil base , 
and when i painted them , i did n't realize that we did n't have any turpentine or paint thinner or anything in the house . 
so i had it all over my hands . 
i had never painted anything , 
so i did n't realize that i needed that . 
i kind of knew , in the back of my mind , 
you ca n't use oil on wood ? 
you can use it on wood , 
but i just had it all over my hands , 
and i went to wash the brushes out , and wash my hands , 
and you ca n't wash it off with water . 
you have to get a solution 
you had to go around with paint all over you , temporarily , anyway . 
i had to drive to the store 
i had to drive to the store with paper towels all over my hands to go buy some paint thinner , and everything like that , 
and then downstairs in the apartment , we just used a latex base , 
and so you can drip it on 
if you dripped it on something , as long as you wiped it up , it was real easy to clean . 
is that what you usually use in the house , is latex ? 
the same with the toys , 
it 's just important to look for one that does n't have lead in it , 
it says safe for children , and all that . 
i heard about that . 
she just started up a day care center , 
and one of the real strict restrictions , was the fact that she had to have a special kind of paint that was fire proof and lead free and all that other good stuff 
so she had that done . 
have you painted anything recently . 
i had to paint the inside of this warehouse thing that you keep some farm equipment in 
was it huge ? 
and what i had to do is just coat this bare wood with a sealer , 
and i had this big five gallon jug , 
and it was like paint thinner . 
it looked just like , it was the viscosity of paint thinner 
but you just took a roller and put it on there , 
and if you saw that the wood was getting wet that was all you needed . 
it used all of it . 
i guess it was about three hundred yards worth . 
so . i guess it worked out . 
it was pretty easy , actually . 
i think though we 're lucky that we did n't have to do any detail work , because i do n't know if i could , 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know , 
must be difficult , 
what about the trim in your house ? 
did you have to do that ? 
it was really easy , 
we had a couple of different size brushes , 
real easy , 
i went around the trim , 
and there was wall paper , 
i was just doing just the trim around the doors and windows 
and there was wall paper 
and if we got it on the wall paper a little bit , we just wipe it right away before it dried , 
it came right off 
so there was no major mistakes , 
did you have one coat or two ? 
two , actually 
around the windows , if you got it on the glass , we let it dry and scraped it after that 
that would be really a time saver . 
we did n't tape anything , 
we were n't that careful , 
i do n't know , 
it 's funny , 
it 's like , if you just go slow , at least i did n't get that many mistakes 
i did n't make that many mistakes , 
me , i would have had to have taped the whole thing , and then brushed around the edges , 
and then i 'd have probably rolled it on . 
it would have taken me forever . 
why ? 
just because you 'd be afraid to do it , 
or have you done it before . 
the first time it probably would have taken me forever , 
if it was my own i would have , 
but my friend said , just go ahead , 
you just go ahead , 
it 's easy . 
i said , it 's your place , 
how long did it take you all ? 
a couple of week ends 
we would go down two or three hours on the weekends , 
so there was two of you all ? 
they were doing all sorts of repairs , 
and i was just painting because i do n't know how to do anything else . 
that 's easy enough . 
so , there 's a whole bunch of people . 
so now i feel like if i ever buy a house , i can probably paint , if nothing else . 
i think i could probably do it , 
as long as the hardware store told me what to buy , then i could do it . 
but i went in to a hardware store to get paint for those toys , 
and the guy said , get this , 
it 's a nice shiny gloss , which was true , 
but i did n't realize what pain it is to clean the brushes and everything , if you do n't have latex 
it 's worth the shine , 
what is your practice as far as budgeting ? 
do you manage the money ? 
we talk about it , 
i see . 
that 's how kind of i am , too . 
are you married ? 
you are . 
i think the women for the most part end up managing the money . 
my husband always says he earns it , and i have to spend only what he earns . 
i do n't mind the spending , 
that seems to be our challenge . 
i do n't work outside of the home , 
and he always threatens that when i spend more than , what 's coming in , i have to go back to work 
i see . 
so i manage it . 
i 'm at home also , 
so , it does get rather interesting trying to survive on one salary , 
do you actually follow a budget ? 
we pretty well do . 
several years we did n't , 
and we found that we just were n't making the most of what we had , 
and so we , set aside a certain amount each week that goes for things that have to be paid for , 
just our bills . 
and then what 's left we divvy up . 
we try to save a little bit , although we 're not always successful , 
and then the rest of it just goes for normal weekly needs . 
that 's pretty much the way we did in the past , 
at this point our children are grown , 
and so i really do n't have the obligations there any more that we have to balance to get things together for them , 
and i really just keep very good records , 
and most of our expenses are fairly the same every month with the exception of utilities and things like that , 
and i try to keep my mastercards and things paid currently 
i do n't always succeed at that . 
i usually keep one with a low interest rate , 
and i put things on there that i think i 'm not going to get to 
and then i have another one , 
we 're in a new home , 
and they take a pretty big chunk compared to what they used to 
so i 'm still getting used to that , 
but we make sure that we just do not buy unless we really can see how we 're going to pay for it ahead 
and we do not buy us , new cars . 
we had new cars always until about four years ago , 
my husband owned his own company 
and it went under , 
and so we could no longer afford that monthly payment , 
and now it just seems just such a large amount of money to spend that we do have a used car , 
he has a company car also , 
but for our personal car we have a used car . 
do you think that it 's wiser to buy used ? 
we do for us 
very much so . 
in fact , we are in a position that most of our friends wonder why we just do n't go to a new car whatever , 
and i said look , you guys are all into car payments , 
we have n't had car payments for so many years , 
i love it this way , 
and recently we just created the laugh among everyone because we had a car that we really liked 
and it has eighty-two thousand miles on it 
and we kept saying , would n't it be great if we could find another one just like it . 
believe it or not , we did , 
we found one , one newer 
the worst part is , it 's the same color 
and so everybody 's saying , you 're kidding , 
you have two cars the same , 
and i said , you know how when you have a bad one , you say , never again 
that 's right . 
i said , we had one , 
and we found one with just seventeen thousand miles on it 
and it 's an eighty-five , 
and so i said , this was a cinch , 
we paid for the car , 
and we still know now that we have this car to put all the miles on . 
this is for all the long running back and forth on interstate driving and things , 
and we intend to replace our other one with a much newer car in the next couple of years , or next year probably . 
do you buy from dealers or from individuals ? 
generally from dealers , 
and it depends , because i do n't like to sell what we 're trading in to an individual , unless we have done that when we had a really good one that we wanted to sell 
we were going up to a larger one , 
but we have found that by trading in and going through a dealer , we always make a deal . 
we have walked out of more dealerships saying , do n't bring us the manager , and all of that unless you want to bring him right away . 
you 're going to get one shot at us 
and they say , you 're kidding . 
this is the price we 're going to give you out the door . 
we do n't want to hear about taxes , 
i 'll let you start . 
do you all keep a budget , 
and how do you hold to yours ? . 
i never keep a budget . 
my budget or philosophy is spend as little as possible . 
that 's good . 
and it 's sort of always worked . 
especially for these times . 
but that depends on the individual if they can have self-control . 
that 's a lot of it . 
i know we tried several different ways . 
one time we tried something that really worked 
but we did n't keep it up . 
i passed it on to a friend 
and she wo n't quit doing it . 
she loves it 
and that was the envelope system . where you go ahead and decide about how much based on what you did last month that you are going to spend , 
and you put the cash in envelopes marked for that . 
so you have one for entertainment and one for groceries et cetera . 
and then for some reason taking it out of that envelope and seeing it in cash instead of in check form causes you to realize how much is left . 
and she even writes down on the envelope as she subtracts and kind of debits on each envelope , what she 's buying . 
and then at the end of the pay period , if she has any left , that much is for fun or entertainment . 
and they kind of work it that way . 
we tried for a while 
and seems like the problem that they were having of all the things that worked was not planning enough for the incidentals that we could n't think about . 
and those are the ones that will kill you . 
the accidental fee or the car repair or the things that were n't supposed to be every month . 
i could n't probably be bothered doing that every month , 
that 's what i mean . 
it was a hassle . 
we 've been married almost thirty years now 
but my husband got paid once a month . 
that 's kind of hard . 
you learn to get through to the end of the month 
but do you sort of self budget even , 
you would n't on payday think , i can go do this and that and this and that . 
you kind of divide it in fourths in a way , do n't you ? 
because if you charge things you pay all your bills at the beginning of the month , when you get paid , 
or you get paid the last day or next to the last day . 
you pay all your bills 
and there is n't anything left to spend anyway . 
that 's true . 
what we 're in the process of doing right now is paying off our credit cards entirely . 
and we 're going to go ahead and try to just live on what we earn instead of guessing ahead of what we probably will have next month . 
or we are paying them off now . 
we 're not there yet . 
there was a time when maybe we did n't take all of them off , 
but you just sort of had to watch what you put in , because you hate to pay those finance charges , when you see how much it is . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i 'm a substitute teacher , 
and i 've only substituted for the last fifteen years , 
so there 's only been really one working . 
same here . 
and it works for me 
but i ca n't see that it would work for probably the majority of people . 
that 's good . 
you know what i 'm saying ? 
i know when we were planning to buy the new car and we had n't had a car payment in five years , we had to go ahead and write down each month what it was that every penny went for , to see how much was going to be left , 
and that was a real eye opener . 
it is when you do it that way . 
but to have lived by that every week would have been tough for me because sometimes i 'll spend less on groceries but we 'll go out . 
so it 's kind of hard to say this is how much you 're going to spend going out for fun . 
this is how much you 're going to spend . 
it 's kind of hard . 
we eat out a good deal at this point . 
do you ? 
i started subbing just to go on a vacation and saved , all that money because i knew that you could n't . 
we were going to go for ten weeks in nineteen eighty 
so i started , working in nineteen eighty-seven and just saved , for three years . 
how nice . 
what minuscule amount i made 
but , that way you just did n't put it on your credit card , 
and it was paid for . 
and you enjoyed it better probably . 
. 
and so i think that that 's difficult for most people , 
but then my father was , very scotch 
i think so too . 
and you never could afford anything although we could afford everything if he wanted to . 
so if you 're out in a department store and there 's a sale , you 're just real careful not to let your urges get hold of you ? 
that 's excellent . 
that 's what i 'm working toward . 
i think you 're probably much ahead of me there 
and i 'm working on it . 
and i never worried about saving money because we 're in the savings plan at work 
and they took it out 
same here , 
same here . 
and i think though that we need to have some liquid around that you do n't have to go through the company to get . 
you know ? 
we never had too much of that 
that came up . 
and we did n't buy really new or expensive cars . 
i think the most , we ever spent for a new car was six thousand dollars . 
and they were mainly used cars . 
that 's the best thing to do . 
my husband said the other day it was the worst mistake we ever did to buy a new car because it was n't worth it from the day after . 
we 've been rather frugal in that respect . 
rather frugal . 
that 's going to payoff on retirement . 
do you think we 've been here , 
do you have any recycling programs there ? 
i do n't really think we have anything in the works as of yet . 
we 're a pretty small town 
and the closest thing we have are bins out in front of wal-mart that show plastics , paper liter bottles , et cetera , et cetera . 
we 've progressed a little bit farther than that . 
it may have even spread all over the whole town , 
and they will have these green bins 
and it 's just as standard as a regular trash can that they come by and pick up and dump . 
and just along with a trash can you have this green plastic bin , 
and you put your bottles in it and paper and all those things 
aluminum . 
anything that can be recycled you just put in that bin . 
and a lot of the restaurants they just have places where you can throw away green bottles , and then the brown bottles . 
and i do n't know , 
i guess they 're clear bottles . 
so a lot of people do have those separated . 
and , of course , they have the dumpsters the igloos . 
and they have those strategically placed around the city . 
and they 're actually going to extend it one of these days maybe to apartment complexes 
that would be good . 
things of that nature . 
so , i guess when you live in a bigger city it really becomes necessary . 
it 's not anywhere near that . 
as far as our little pitch in to it we do recycle our aluminum cans . 
but that 's as far as we go 
because i take them to a girl at work , 
i can do that for her 
and i do n't want the hassle because we have to go to another town to do it . 
we do n't have anything here in belton . 
it 's a pretty small little town . 
i remember my grandparents and i used to always get out there on the road and pick up beer cans . 
so that 's about all that we 're doing here . 
they 're getting a little bit more , 
they need more community awareness of just what is it mean to recycle , and what can you recycle and what you ca n't . because not a lot of people do really know what it 's for . 
they 're doing a real good job of separating it here . 
and , of course , there you have a specific place to put your paper . 
and they try to get you to go ahead and separate it , 
but they actually have the door to door pickup . 
and i think it started out to be just kind of a test , a pilot project . 
and it went over so well that they just extended it . 
i do n't know if it 's done by a private company or not . 
it may be . 
but they just go around to each door and pick it up . 
that 's excellent . 
that 's good . 
let 's see . 
and every year , of course , the phone books they tell everybody across the city to put all their phone books in the recycle bins . 
for a bigger city they 're pretty thick . 
they are . 
and sometimes you might have two or three . 
so that 's a big savings right there in itself . 
ours just goes in the regular trash . 
there 's not a whole lot . 
and there are some places that will set up for old newspapers and stuff . 
but usually it has n't caught on yet . 
i 'm hoping it will soon . 
recycled paper is actually very expensive . 
so , when you see something that 's on recycled paper , they 've actually gone to a lot of expense to do that . 
they 're not coming out ahead at all . 
it 's really a cost . 
. i was n't totally aware of that . 
it sounds good to the public 
but there 's really a big cost incurred when you do recycle something . 
aluminum i do n't know . 
they may be coming out ahead . 
but i know , for a fact that the paper on that end they 're not . 
it 's just good to recycle 
but it 's not to their advantage . 
and it costs less . 
i ca n't think of anything else . 
i ca n't either . because we 're at a very beginning stages , 
we look forward to it . 
i hope you all come along a little farther in the future . 
me too . 
it was nice talking to you . 
you too . 
how would you go about organizing a family reunion ? 
i grew up in the deep south south alabama . 
my family got together almost every week . 
and there would be thirty people . 
so people talk about big family reunions 
i have a friend who just went to wyoming to some big ranch where there were four hundred people for their family reunion . 
so how i would go about doing it is i would just call all my relatives . 
my father has five sisters and two brothers 
and my mother has four brothers and two sisters . 
both of my parents had big families , 
and we always got together , just always . 
now it 's different because i live here 
when i go home i try to see as much of the family as i can 
but it 's real different . 
and i grew up in a real not normal setting . 
with all of you living so close together . 
sunday dinner was at my grandmother 's 
and like i said there would be thirty people , 
and everyone would just bring things 
and my grandmother would cook and cook and cook . 
i come from a very small family . 
we are from texas 
and my family is from ohio 
and we met in florida . 
so the seven of us went on a cruise and then went to disney together . 
so that 's all the family , 
so planning our family reunion was very easy . 
i guess so . 
it really sounds like it was fun . 
the question was on lawn and garden work . 
how do you like it ? 
i do n't do much of it here . 
i 'm from colorado originally 
and there are no bugs there . 
and i did n't mind getting in the dirt there , 
but i 'll tell you what , 
once i see these bugs around here , i 'm just kind of out of it . 
what kind do you have ? . 
do they really ? 
cockroaches are awful here . 
just awful . 
and i know somebody that lives there , 
and they never mentioned that problem . 
you 're kidding , 
you 're kidding . 
maybe they did n't mention it because it 's just kind of a fact of life around here . 
they probably just take it for granted then . 
it must be . 
if they lived here , a lot of people i know just say , i just stomp on them . 
it does n't matter . 
they make good fertilizer in the garden . 
i do n't have that problem , 
i said i 'll do inside work 
you do outside work . 
and so i get into the gardening part of it , the fun part , like putting in the annuals and things like that . 
but i do n't like it dirty . 
i have to say that 's not exactly my favorite thing either really . 
i do n't know . 
we got the question 
and i thought , this is going to be interesting . 
two bits i 'll get a man to talk to me , because they get stuck doing it all . 
and this year we put in a new lawn in a new home 
so we 've been fighting a drought here this summer and getting into fall . 
today we just had a lot of rain . 
so it 's kind of nice . 
i do n't know how yours has been . 
it 's been real hot here lately . 
we 've had to actually have the air-conditioning on and everything 
it 's supposed to rain again this weekend . 
i see . 
we 're leaving tomorrow 
and we 're going down to new orleans 
this is going to be a switch for us for a week going down there , 
and i think we 'll probably experience some of your weather although i think they have more humidity . 
but as far as the gardening and things like that goes i do n't know too much about how much i really do enjoy it myself . 
do you like it at all ? 
not here . 
here i just ca n't stand to even get out in the dirt . 
just , 
how about when you were in colorado ? 
i liked it a little bit 
i was working at that time full-time and did n't have a lot of time , for that 
and so that really hampered it a little bit . 
and then , too where we had the dry summer and we had to sprinkle constantly . my water bill was high . 
and if you have that on a regular basis in texas , i think i would go with something very dry to keep it off . 
and with children you probably do n't have time anyhow to get into it . 
not really . 
very good . 
i guess we 've kind of covered our subject matter , since neither one is really into gardening , are we ? 
afraid not . 
hopefully they 'll give a subject i like one of these times . something i really know a lot about . 
nice talking to you . 
nice talking with you . 
are you there ? 
do you know the question for today ? 
and what is your feeling ? 
do you think this is vital important ? 
do you , 
i have been involved in some political campaigns and that kind of thing , 
a lot of them are so ill informed 
they have no idea even that there 's an election 
and these are people that are registered . 
i have worked in some campaigns 
and it 's the most discouraging thing in the world . 
i 'm originally from oklahoma , 
and up there if they miss three elections , then they have to reregister . 
and i have often wondered if maybe that would help the situation . 
i do n't know . 
that 's a thought . 
can you come up with anything else that maybe we could do to these people ? 
i do n't know 
i like that idea . 
i had a thought just a second ago 
but it slipped my mind . 
that 's all right . 
probably one of the reasons that people do n't vote more is because they do n't know the candidates . 
that 's one thing that i have learned in working in elections and things is sometimes even when you work for someone you do n't really know what they 're like . 
and when they got in office it was just a disaster . 
and i 'm not sure how you go about really finding out what people are really like before you vote for them . 
the only thing is if they do n't vote , they have no right to complain . 
i do n't know why we are so complacent , 
but i 'm going to vote each time . 
right or wrong i 'm going to cast a ballot 
and then if i 'm unhappy with it , i have the right to express my opinion . 
that 's right . 
and i 'm like you . 
i 've just lost a train of thought that i had . 
but they have been little more effective in oklahoma with having this program that you vote or you lose it . 
three . 
three . 
you have to skip three . 
and of course , they can be , a long time apart 
i think that 's an excellent idea because then people really have to think about it . 
of course , 
but what do you think of this no excuse absentee balloting ? 
no excuse . 
i 'm not sure if i 'm familiar with that , or not . 
i 'm sure all over the state of texas now you have three weeks to go for absentee balloting . 
and you do n't have to be sick , out of town or anything . 
there is no excuse . 
anyone can go and vote . 
i think that 's great . 
do you ? 
my husband has run for office before 
and sometimes it 's nice to be able to go ahead of time and vote because if you 're going to be tied up that day campaigning or whatever it might be . that just kind of takes that load off , 
you can just go ahead and get that taken care of 
but that is an excuse i could live with . 
i am so bitterly opposed to this . 
if you 're busy , that has always been a legitimate excuse . 
if you are incapacitated , ill health , 
let 's see . 
they have five , six people at my polling place . 
they can come from all over the city , 
and i do n't know why we could n't have duplicate voting on some of this . 
hopefully once they 've checked them off the list they do have to check them off a list when they vote 
i know . 
i do n't , 
i am only twenty-eight 
and i have n't had much experience with nursing homes . 
i have never visited any of them 
and i do n't think i 've ever even been in one . 
have you ? 
actually i 've been in them but just visiting 
when we were in our teen ages we 'd go on sundays and visit the older people . 
but i have an elderly grandma that lives with us . 
and she 's lived with us for five years . 
so i kind of know how to decide if you want to put somebody in a rest home 
or we 've had those discussions about should we put her in because she 's pretty senile 
and it takes a lot of care 
there 's someone in my fiancee 's family . 
his grandmother too 
her son , his uncle , whatever . 
he 's recently retired 
and so he 's the one who she moved in with when she had a stroke 
and all the other children are working or whatever . 
they 're all my parents age . 
his retirement though is really twenty-four hours a day . 
they have a day care two days a week . 
they call it senior citizen day care . 
but she goes in the senior citizen center . 
so he gets a break two days a week 
but it 's only for two or three hours at a time . 
and just , you see a lot of things like mumblex was a great golfer and wanted to play golf when he retired , 
and you know that a lot of the things he thought he would do when he retired he 's not able to do now . 
to put her in a rest home ? 
and is that how your parents feel 
it 's more my grandma that feels that way . 
she says that when her husband died that my uncle had said that he would never put her in a rest home . 
i do n't know . 
i do n't think my parents would 
but she is getting pretty bad 
she has to have a little toilet right by her bed 
and my mom has to take care of her pretty much 
i do n't know . 
it 's a hard decision , 
but i do n't think i would do it to my parents personally . 
i know i feel like i would never do that with my parents either . 
i 'm not really experienced 
but like i said i just have that one family , 
and i just really feel bad for the guy who his whole life is different now , than he thought it would be . 
when he retired ? 
and he 's got seven brothers and sisters 
and , he 's the one because he 's the one that is n't going to work every day and that she moved in with when she needed to move in with someone . 
it 's that good for us just because my uncle and my mom switch off like we have her for three months and then he has her for three months . 
that 's great . 
so that works out good . 
that 's a good idea . 
and maybe when the other brothers and sisters retire or whatever , i do n't know what they 're going to do . 
it 's really not my family . 
it 's my fiancee 's 
so i ca n't say much . 
but i always feel like i would never put my parents in either 
and i wonder 
so if my parents do need to live with someone , it will probably be with me because all my brothers and sisters will be having teenagers around and everything to care for , 
that 's fine with me . 
my fiancee and i both figure that 's what we 're going to end up with both of the parents or whoever . 
you know what i mean ? 
we feel like , it 's our responsibility , 
and i feel like i would never put them in a home . 
but i wonder if one of us is going to have to quit work someday or retire early or something . 
you think about it 
i do n't know . 
this country kind of takes the worst care of the elderly of any other country . 
you think ? 
and , it 's really more of a respect issue that the older people in other countries that i 've been to seem to really have a lot more respect for the elderly people 
and they really seem as wise 
and in this country nobody really pays attention 
they 're seen as senile . 
and the old-timer made with the old way 
and nobody respects the traditions . 
, i 'm not saying that i do either 
but it 's just funny 
and we really do n't have any that do n't have the social security and everything 
really is n't that much for elderly people to live on . 
even if they 're in good health it 's incredible . 
they do n't get special treatment 
and maybe they should because we 're all going to get old someday . 
i know . 
and so it 's kind of a depressing topic though . 
how old are you ? 
i 'm twenty . 
so and it must be rough for you too to see your grandmother . 
it really is 
this is a subject that you never think you 'll be assigned to . one that kind of comes up when you 've lost the other subjects . 
as i was sitting there , i thought , the weather 's been perfect . 
i do n't know much to say about it . 
for the balloon festival here in plano it was just gorgeous . 
i 'm from plano also . 
are you ? 
it could n't have been better . 
that 's right . 
it did n't foul one launch , 
and that 's kind of unusual , 
and it 's kind of cold in the mornings 
so you dress up warm , 
that 's the only thing wrong i can find with it . 
i just got back from dayton . 
i spent the weekend in ohio with my family 
how fun . 
and the trees are changing color there . 
i miss that , 
as soon as we got out of the cloud cover . 
of course it was n't sunny like it is here . 
it was real gray 
but as soon as the plane got through the clouds and i saw all those trees , it just really made me realize how much i miss the fall . 
i do n't complain weather wise though , because it was also thirty-five degrees there yesterday morning , 
and the high was only fifty , 
and it was supposed to drop and get sleet in the afternoon 
so it was nice to get off the plane where it was in the seventies . 
i guess you have to take some things and leave some things . 
that 's right . 
i 'm from utah area , 
and they have tons of canyons where the leaves change 
and they 're gorgeous 
you could spend every weekend of the fall going to a different area . 
we did that when we lived up in michigan . 
we went up to the upper peninsula , 
and they actually printed out maps of routes you could take so you would get maximum leaf exposure . 
and then on leaf weekends which is this time of the year , it 's bumper to bumper traffic , 
whoever was driving could never have a prayer of looking at the leaves , because they had to keep watching the road . 
it 's kind of hazardous for driving 
that 's for sure . 
but i ca n't complain . 
i do n't know if i 've been spoiled . 
i 've been thinking it 's getting cold sooner than normal . 
we 've only lived here a couple of years . 
i think it is , 
and my family said that in ohio there was just an article on , at the t v news that they are three weeks ahead of schedule as far as the coldness of the temperatures and the first frost , 
everything just happened three weeks early this year . 
we 'll have to see how it goes , 
a couple of weeks ago we were cooler than normal , 
but then we 're back to being warmer than normal this week , or last week , 
just so we do n't have one of those famous ice storms in the spring . 
i do n't have to live through any of those really , 
nothing comparable to what you 've had before . 
i 've only been here just a short time , too , 
so i have n't been through any of those either , 
so . i have in michigan , 
but in michigan you can get twelve inches of snow 
and life goes on . 
you 're right . 
so , as i understand it here , if there 's anything , they 'll call off schools and close businesses . 
they get ice , 
and no one can drive on ice . 
we used to think they were pansies , 
the real definition of ice . 
so i think we 've discussed it good enough today . 
i think so . 
it was good talking to you . 
it was nice talking with you . 
maybe we 'll get the next time . 
take care . 
why do n't you start 
you probably have a job you need to get to pretty soon . 
i 'm already on my job 
you are , 
so , you reached me at my job . 
how do you dress for work ? 
my dress for work most of the time is rather comfortable and casual usually slacks and a soft colored shirt . 
the thing that distinguishes me a lot of the time when i have to dress real professionally for a meeting or something is i wear a clerical collar and a suit and all of that sort of thing , 
but when i do n't need to dress up for a meeting or a service of some sort , i do n't . 
you 're in a church there ? 
, this is my first morning to work down at our little church preschool , 
and they 've told me to wear just something terribly comfortable because these are two year olds , 
and they have bible lessons 
and they have all the things during the morning , 
but they still have snack time and play time , 
so , i 'm going to be dressing just in casual slacks and t-shirts , probably not blue jeans , but little bit short of that , just tennis shoes and play clothes . 
around there you can probably wear t-shirts and other things , 
but around here , at this time of the year we are into sweaters and coats . 
i 'm envious . 
it 's a beautiful day here , 
and it 's in the sixties , 
but we still have a lot of hot afternoons , 
it 's supposed to be eighty-five today , 
it 's kind of an in between change , that they 're in their summer clothes during the afternoons , because you just ca n't stand the sweaters , 
but in the mornings people are dressing for work in their sweaters because they just want it to be fall so badly . 
today we wear coats 
and as the day warms up , we may go to light jackets , 
did you ? 
but i do n't think there 's an escape from light jackets . 
i understand . 
the wind will take away a lot of body heat . 
are the people around you dressing similar to you ? 
very similar . 
you do n't have to buy the lot of the wardrobe that some of the people in banking and that kind of thing do . 
i 'm not stuck with that kind of a situation . 
that 's good . 
that 's good . 
yesterday i had to dress up , and , be more formal because i had a formal meeting at noon time , 
but then i can go home later in the day and be a little more casual 
that 's wonderful . 
and then if i have a meeting of people that i know , i can be very casual in the evening . 
my husband has to take the bus into dallas , and does n't return all day , 
so he has to dress , 
and he just really hates it , 
they have the long sleeve shirts and the whole tie and the whole suit , 
and even when his job is not going to be with people all day long , he said it 's just part of the uniform and the expected image that they have to dress . 
around here in a lot of places that 's the way it is 
there are expected , dress codes 
and the people need to follow that . 
i think years ago , i used to be far more committed to the idea of a dress code 
but i 've relaxed a lot more as i 've gotten older and become more comfortable with myself . 
i think that 's great . 
i think that 's good . 
it 's taken a long time to break away , from that 
i understand . 
but now that i 've broken away from it , i 'm glad i have . 
another interesting thing on our end here is how much younger i dress than my mother would have in her forties , 
and i will run around to the store in slacks and tennis shoes , 
you mean you do n't need to wear little old house dresses any more ? 
and pearls , 
and she would not have even probably owned a pair of tennis shoes after she got out of high school , 
so she tells me i dress young , 
but that 's okay . 
that 's a good idea , 
that 's a good idea . 
there 's not a lot more i can think of to discuss on clothing . 
i guess this is what you call a natural end . 
what kind of shoes do they wear down there ? 
of course , like i said , if my husband 's going downtown , he 's got the whole men 's dress shoes 
we all kind of have our own little dress code of just either tennis shoes or little loafers and , tights , and things that feel comfortable to us around our kids . 
we can wear pretty much that , although tennis shoes are kind of out in almost every situation unless you want to look like a gook . 
i 'm sure they are there . 
i 'm sure they are . 
that 's right , 
i 'm sure that true . 
it 's a lot different than working in a kids preschool . 
a lot different . 
that 's right . 
you all have a nice day there . 
you too , 
and thank you for calling . 
thank you very much . 
i almost forgot the topic , 
i was waiting so long for it to find somebody . 
it 's on your favorite t v shows and why . 
what is your favorite t v show ? 
major dad . 
you like that one ? 
i love it , 
i think it promotes good family values , 
and it 's funny . 
i 've never really watched that one . 
it 's funny how you can just get in a mode where you only watch certain shows 
and there 's only a few that i like to watch routinely . 
what kind do you like to watch ? 
i like shows like growing pains 
and what 's the other one , 
they moved from tuesday night to wednesday night , 
so i do n't get to watch it very much . 
wonder years ? 
wonder years , 
that 's my favorite . 
i like both of those real much also . 
i think basically , they promote family values . 
wonder years , 
i guess that is supposed to be put out at a time when i was growing up or whatever . 
i guess i can really relate to it , 
and it 's just a real cute show . 
i guess i like the shows that really have a real sense of honesty or sort of a purity value . 
i do , too . 
i do n't like it , 
and when you have children watching it , that sometimes really starts to bother me 
and that 's one of the reasons , 
if you want to go all time favorite show , probably one of them was little house on the prairie 
my wife really likes that show , 
which i always felt was wonderful 
like i said , the risque stuff , just i guess they think that 's what people want to watch . 
but there 's a sense of purity in the show , 
one of my favorite shows used to be happy days 
but richie always used to be just so honest and pure , 
and when he left the show it seemed to be missing that part of it 
and i never did like it after that 
so , i do n't know , 
i see the same thing in wonder years and a lot of the shows that i like to watch . 
there always seems to be that kind of value in there somewhere . 
i agree . 
do you like the sports programming ? 
i enjoy those also , almost as much to a certain extent . 
our whole house is baseball fans 
and we enjoy that , 
so you 're going to watch a game tonight ? 
so do you have a favorite for the series or anything ? 
probably the pirates , 
but only because of steve bushel 
otherwise i really do n't care that much , 
but i 'm annoyed that the rangers got rid of him , 
and i 'd like to see him do well all the way to the bank i guess . 
he 's a nice guy . 
i take it you live in the dallas area . 
do you live in the dallas area ? 
live in plano . 
i live in garland , 
and 
i like steve bushel , 
but i do n't really like the pirates . 
i 'm a big saint louis cardinals fan 
so i 'm kind of pulling for the braves over all , 
they 've come from so far down , 
i really would like to see them do well . 
maybe they 'll make it , 
i do n't know 
but , 
i like sports programming quite a bit , 
and getting back to the point that you made , that 's really true , 
we were watching roseanne couple of weeks ago , 
and her daughter was talking about birth control 
and my daughter was kind of walking in during that time , 
and she 's only seven years old , 
so many of them now it just seems like they feel like they have to stick that stuff in , 
and , i 'm an adult 
and i have adult tastes now , 
but i do n't need that 
i like things that are wholesome . 
that seems to be more our values , too , 
the wonder years it 's kind of risque stuff maybe for teenagers , 
and you can kind of relate to it , 
i do n't know , 
i enjoy that a lot 
but i agree with you , 
people would watch them because there was really the period that was going on there , 
he really was n't messing around with the girls , 
but everybody perceived him that way , and stuff 
but as soon as he went to move in with another girl , the show just died 
and it 's interesting that a lot of the shows are that way , 
what kind of music do you like ? 
i was thinking about it for a long time , 
and i like basically almost every form of music and type of music . 
i do n't have a whole lot of dislikes . 
i like jazz especially the blues , 
and i like a lot of the classics everything back from bach and beethoven and chopin and just in general everything . 
i enjoy a lot of the modern forms , 
do you like rock and those kind of things punk even . 
some of the punk when i was in high school , that was one of the big things , was punk music , 
and some of it has a lot to say , 
the music does , 
the lyrics do , 
i do n't think they have a whole lot to say , even . 
it really expresses some of the opinions of the people who enjoy the music 
i guess . 
but as far as a musical art form , i just do n't see a whole lot of art to it . 
do you like rap ? 
some of it 
it depends . 
and one is the rap that is just funny , 
and they usually do a lot of satire 
that kind i kind of like . 
some of it is kind of pointless , 
i do n't enjoy that at all when they 're just talking about , i 'm better than you , and . 
i do n't like that . 
i like the funny , satire , 
and then some of it actually gets into some serious discussions of problems in urban society . 
it really does . 
it talks about race relations and police relations 
i guess i do n't really care to listen to rap that much except for once in a while some of the funny more satire kind some times . 
i 'm , with you though , 
i like classical 
i do n't like to listen to it all the time , but some of the time , anyway . 
i like easy listening , just kind of , 
i guess i do n't care much for rock and roll any more . 
i used to like it all right , 
but i do n't really care to listen to it any more for some reason . 
let 's see . 
country western i 'm not quite as big on that . 
some of it 's okay 
that 's about my opinion of that . 
it 's okay , 
some of it kind of falls in the rap category i guess , 
. the thing about country western that i do n't enjoy is , does n't seem to be any imagination behind it 
a lot of them , sound really similar , 
and so the musicians do n't get to really get into their music . 
they just play a certain number of chords 
the drummer plays a certain beat , 
and you have a country and western song 
that 's kind of the way i feel about rock and roll sometimes , too , i guess . 
has kind of the same sound over and over , 
and the other thing i do n't like about it is they have a tendency to play the instrumental so loud that you ca n't understand what the lyrics are 
you ca n't understand what they 're saying on some of those songs which probably is just as well on some of them , too . 
and i ca n't say that i like a lot of the very modern , rock and roll , 
but i really enjoy the fifties , the sixties and some of the seventies rock and roll 
earlier things . 
and i really enjoy , especially the sixties ... 
while i was waiting for you to connect , i thought of a couple of menus , 
so i decided it had to be in it , informal or not . 
if it 's informal i 'd probably choose something just like hamburgers or steaks out on the grill because that 's a lot of fun , especially this time of year where it 's so nice out . 
if it was formal i 'd probably go with something like a chicken breast or lasagna or something . 
i 'm not into formal dinner parties , 
but i 'd probably go with lasagna , a green salad , and garlic bread . 
i see . 
so what do you use for cookbooks ? 
i have a pillsbury cookbook i got when i was married , 
but , it 's kind of the bible of cooking for me . 
then i have some from church that are more family recipes that are more useful budget cookbooks , 
and , of course , you get a lot from when you 're growing up . 
i cook a lot the same as my mom did , 
of course i 've added several different recipes , 
i think we come from different backgrounds , 
that 's good . 
so , it 
have different perspectives . 
i find the joy of cooking to be a remarkably useful book to fall back on , 
because it has almost everything in it . 
but on the other hand , it 's not very inspiring , 
it 's a good reference when you need to dig something up . 
what we 've found very useful is a book called the thirty minute cookbook , by marion burroughs 
which has recipes which allegedly can all be prepared in thirty minutes 
the whole meal 
that would be wonderful in these times . 
i find that the cutting up of the food , and all that really makes it take a little longer than thirty minutes . 
either they 're really fast 
they 're interesting combinations that nobody thought of . 
what 's one of your favorites ? 
the one i had most recently was one that , she describes as jim beard 's favorite summer menu , or something , 
and it consisted of grilled kielbasa sausage a potato salad with olive oil , and some tomatoes that had been chopped up with onions and curry powder 
and probably some yogurt was in there . 
sounds too good . 
that 's certain you can do in thirty minutes . 
i would recommend you look at that book if you 're a busy person . 
that thirty minute cookbook . 
thirty minute cookbook . 
that sounds fun . 
i find a lot of the cookbooks that you buy over the counter ask for really strange ingredients , or things i do n't keep on hand all the time 
and i have young children , 
and our budget 's set at this time , 
but i want to use simple recipes that i have things on hand , 
i do n't have to run to the store to buy or look for something i have n't heard of . 
that 's why sometimes i shy away from more of a traditional cookbook 
but it was interesting talking to you . 
it 's a fun subject . 
food is one of my favorite things too . 
anything else you wanted to add ? 
you had said dinner , 
what would i put together for a formal dinner . 
we had some friends over as recently as saturday night 
the inspiration was a combination of julia child for the dessert a chocolate mousse recipe and a sort of mumblex cookbook which has a recipe for a thing called chicken marabella which is this wonderful thing you can do , 
that 's good . 
basically you 're baking chicken in an open pan having marinated it first 
and , my wife did this part 
so i do n't remember all the details 
marinated in olive oil and some seasoning and cooked with some olives and some prunes 
there 's a little bit of brown sugar in there , 
and it bakes up 
and it 's a delicious thing , 
and it 's easy 
that sounds good . 
comparatively . 
so . . i 'm sorry , 
that sounds really good . 
it sounds like you guys are a little more gourmet than i am , 
i 'm pretty simple right now , 
maybe a little more leisure time to do it . 
i do n't know , 
that 's true , 
i have little ones 
and they wo n't eat too many different foods right now . 
i found my kids were very frustrating when they were little in terms of their tastes . 
there again , sometimes it was easy , 
canned ravioli was , one of their favorites , 
and so it was easy to open a can of ravioli . 
spaghetti 's a pretty staple every other week or so 
and it goes a long ways too . 
nice talking to you cheryl . 
talk to you later maybe . 
i guess our topic is advice about going to college . 
do you have children of your own ? 
i do n't have any children , 
but i 'm still going to college . 
are you ? 
what school are you going to ? 
n c state . 
. are you enjoying it ? 
it 's a lot of work . 
are you working on your bachelor 's degree ? 
my bachelor 's . 
and what field of study are you in ? 
it 's actually in computer science 
and i have a special interest in voice i o . 
that 's neat . 
are you from north carolina ? 
i 'm actually from amarillo , texas , originally . 
are you really ? 
. what took you to north carolina ? 
the service . 
i see . 
that was one of the things i was thinking about in school , 
i went to texas tech out in lubbock 
and i had a friend , 
my roommate went to tech also , 
but she was from new mexico 
and she had to pay out of state tuition 
and i think that would have played a real big part of my decision 
it would have played a major part in mine . 
of course back then it was so much cheaper than it is now . 
it was four dollars a semester hour 
and so i was going to school for just a few hundred dollars a semester , 
and she was paying forty dollars an hour 
so she paid ten times as much because she was out of state . 
luckily i 've paid in state tuition the whole time . 
that 's good . 
so i think that would be one thing i would definitely consider try to find a school within the state that i liked well enough to attend . 
the second thing is some colleges only offer the liberal arts whereas state , they offer engineering courses 
so depending on what your major is , you might want to attend somewhere like tech 
some schools may even give you financial aid , where another one wo n't . 
that 's true , 
that was something else i had , was , i had government aid , of course , 
but it was wonderful , because i got one of those grants that you do n't have to repay 
and 
it was so nice 
it paid most of my tuition , and a lot of the book costs and that kind of thing 
that 's great . 
was it a pell grant ? 
i 'm sorry , 
what did you say ? 
what kind of grant was it ? 
it was called a b e o g , a basic equal opportunity grant 
and it was from the government , 
and at first it was based on my parents ' income . 
my parents had five children and really did n't make enough money to send any of us to school . 
and so because based on the number of children and the amount of money my father brought in , i got a small grant 
but then after that , i was on my own , working and trying to go to school on my own . 
so then i got a real big grant , because the amount of money i was making really did n't compare . 
so , it was kind of nice . 
i do n't know if those are still available or not , 
there 's a lot of different organizations who do give grants , 
but i 'm not exactly sure which ones they are and how much , they generally run . 
this was great , 
it was just based on how much your tuition costs and everything , 
and generally it paid everything , 
so i went to school about three years of my four for almost nothing , 
that 's great . 
it was really nice . 
another thing . 
i 've got a degree from another college 
and something that might play a part is the size of the college . 
the smaller schools can give you a lot more specialized instruction and attention than the larger schools 
in the larger schools you get caught up in the bureaucracy , 
and they just give you a teacher 's assistants 
instead of a scholar you get a t a 
that 's right . 
and you do n't get near the quality of education , 
and as well , the smaller schools often times do n't cost as much . 
i did n't know that . 
. i guess the only comparison i had ever heard was between a christian college , because i thought about attending abilene christian instead of texas tech 
and of course the price was just astronomical compared to tech 
the christian college was so much more expensive . 
but i guess some of the other smaller colleges might be a lot different . 
. at state , i think it 's just a waste of somebody 's money to go there 
it 's really a shame because of the instruction 
i 'd rather go to any other college in the state , 
and i would definitely get my money 's worth , 
much better than state . 
it 's kind of unfortunate , because they 've just grown so big that they just do n't care about the students any more . 
you 're just a number . 
they 're bent on seeing how much more land they can get , and how much of the campus they can build up 
it 's really a bad situation here . 
that 's a shame . 
i felt a little cheated at tech , also . 
what do you feel is the major change that 's been going on ? 
that 's a tough question . 
we are now able to work full eight hours a day and still do our housework . 
do n't ask me . 
i think that has been the major change , is that , women feel they need to go out and do this , 
they no longer feel it 's no big deal to stay home and raise your family any more . 
it has no credibility any more . 
i know it , 
and i think that 's really sad , because i think there 's going to be a generation of kids that are going to grow up raised by somebody else . 
i 'm a school teacher , 
and i 'm in charge of raising them , 
so i can appreciate it . 
i 'm still home with my last one , 
and i would n't change a minute of it for anything . 
good for you , 
good for you . 
but , i ca n't help but think that eventually the pendulum 's going to swing back the other way again . 
this summer oprah had a t v show about wives that refused to go to work , and how their husbands thought they were terrible , 
and one woman had four children , 
and her husband said she was n't pulling her own weight in the family 
that 's frightening 
it 's sad , 
and , from the audience participation it was almost a social issue 
people were siding with the husband , saying , you 've got to go to work , 
if you have these four children , you 've got to support them , 
and nobody would give her credit for being home and raising them . 
i think too many people feel they need to live a more extravagant life-style than necessary 
that 's true . 
i do n't think the kids do n't benefit from the bigger house and the fancier cars , and this type of thing . 
i think that they would from the attention or whatever 
that 's true . 
i do n't know , 
i see it as a major problem 
and i think it 's going to have to swing back the other way , because i think we 're going to have an awful lot of kids who are going to have major problems from all this . 
as i said , i teach school 
and i 'm trying to think , 
i do n't know , 
i have one mother that i know is home , 
but she also has ten children . 
what grade do you teach ? 
six , seven and eight . 
six , seven and eight . 
where do you live ? 
in richardson . 
in richardson , 
we 're in plano here . 
i have a daughter in middle school , 
she has a few friends that have moms who are still at home , 
but do you ever see problems that you feel that the kids are left alone too much , 
i 've got one child that stays with me every day until five , because his mother does n't come home until seven , 
and he does n't want to be home from three thirty until seven by himself . 
he stays at school ? 
and the school allows that ? 
he stays with me 
and i have a tendency to work late . 
i work until six 
so he stays with me until five thirty and then goes home 
and i have lots of kids , because they know i 'm there late 
i 'm a slow mover to say the least , 
but they 'll come in and say , can i stay with you because i do n't want to go home to an empty house . 
when i said i 'm raising them , i am , 
because we 're talking about boy friends 
and we 're talking about what the girl said in class , and what 's right because there 's no mother at home 
no mother to talk to . 
and it makes a difference , 
and just the social values , 
do you feel it will swing back the other way , 
or do you feel there 's just going to be a big push for more and more day care type situations ? 
i do n't know . 
i 've got a twenty-one year old female , 
and i 've got twenty-two year old male children , 
and i listen to my daughter , 
and she 's going to work , 
and she 's going to buy her house , 
and she 's going to get her car , 
and then she 's going to have her children , 
and then when they go on one salary , will they be able to sustain what their life-style is . 
and they 're back to work , 
and i agree with you , 
i was raised in a generation we did n't need all those things 
and we lived without them , 
we did fine , 
why do n't you go ahead and say what you feel , 
and then i 'll respond . 
i 'm very guilty of not doing my part with recycling , i 'm afraid . 
we recently moved here from north carolina , 
and they had curbside recycling , 
and it was very easy to put everything out there , 
but we do n't have it at least in our neighborhood right now 
so , i 've been very guilty about not making the effort to take things where they belong . 
how long have you been here ? 
we 've been here since january , 
so we still feel very new , 
but it 's working up to a year now , 
so , i guess we 're old timers compared to some people . 
i think that 's a good excuse . 
you need to get into the system a little more and know where to take things . 
we 've been here probably two and a half years , 
and we did n't recycle at all before we came 
so i think we 're doing well . 
we save most of our aluminum cans and glass and newspaper right now . 
where do you take those things ? 
the glass and the newspaper we usually take to walmart . 
in behind walmart they have bins 
and then we usually save up our cans and change them in for money . 
where do you do that , 
because we 've been saving cans for my daughter 's choir , 
but i did n't know where to take them . 
there 's a place on parker road , 
it 's just over the overpass before you get to k-mart . 
i think there 's a service station there . 
there 's usually a semi truck that has a person there that will weigh them 
and they are n't worth much right now , 
but it 's better than nothing , 
better than nothing , 
and what i hear a lot of neighborhoods do have the pickup now , 
and hopefully we 'll be getting them in the month of october . 
it seems like ever since we 've moved here we 've been hearing that it 's coming in a couple of months , 
and , i think it 's been delayed . 
i think it was originally scheduled for february , 
but the trucks that were supposed to do it , there 's been some problems with from what i 've read in the mail that we get 
and i ca n't wait for that , 
that will be easy . 
i get tired of newspaper littering the garage . 
it gets to be a bit much to haul it off , 
i feel guilty we do n't recycle our milk containers because they seem like a big waste . 
they 're a lot of bulk , anyway 
they fill up the whole kitchen garbage can 
so , i 'll be glad when the bins do come , 
and i think that 's when i 'll start doing the plastic , too . 
it was real easy with the bins , 
it really was , 
it was just no effort at all no more trouble than taking out the garbage , 
i 've gotten used to washing the , salad dressing bottles and things like that , 
it 's not that big of a deal , 
and it 's nicer to just throw them out , 
but we can do our part take an extra minute or two . 
how much do you earn on the cans , 
when we first were here , it was like we 'd take maybe a grocery sack full or maybe two grocery sacks full , 
and it would be two dollars 
but since last time we 've gotten more like a dollar . 
so it 's gone down . 
which is understandable , 
i think , more people are recycling . 
and whatever pop we drink , we used to take the boys out for a bike ride , and pick up the litter the cans 
and that was kind of fun , 
but we have n't done that for a long time 
that sounds like a pretty good project . 
the boys think it 's fun , 
plus you get your exercise 
and , you do get to stop once in a while when there is a can to rest , 
i 'll have to keep myself and get on it . 
my neighbor across the street is so careful about recycling , 
and so i keep telling myself , i 'll get it organized , 
but , maybe they 'll beat me and do the city wide first . 
hopefully the bins will be here in this month 
and that will spur you on , 
i wo n't have any excuse then , 
that 's for sure . 
thinking about it , anyway . 
that 's all you can do 
do they time this thing for us , 
or do we , 
you can do it as long as you want . 
if it 's been long enough , 
five minutes is when they cut in and say , we do n't have any more room for recording . 
you ca n't chat all day . 
so we can say good-bye now . 
it was good talking to you , 
and maybe we 'll get on line again . 
sherry . 
so you said that you live in coppell . 
so what is your house like ? 
it 's a two bedroom , two baths duplex . 
that 's neat , 
is it one you 're renting or buying ? 
we own it , 
our side . 
that 's kind of neat that even though it 's a duplex , you can still buy . 
that 's good . 
do you have any children ? 
do you ? 
i have two children , 
and our home is really too small for us right now . 
ours is , too . 
we outgrew it when we moved in . 
we moved from an apartment that was really small , 
and at the time we just had a little baby that was five months old 
so we moved into this house in garland , 
it 's in one of the older areas of town 
and one thing i really like is it has big trees everywhere 
lots of shade and squirrels and birds and real pretty , 
but the house is real small 
it has less than a thousand square feet 
it 's real little . 
you all are cramped . 
and now i have a daughter , 
now the one that was five months old is seven years old 
and i have another one that 's three and a half and have all these clothes , and toys and stuff that we 're just trying to find places to put , 
how many bedrooms is it ? 
they advertised it as a three bedroom house because it has a built on addition room 
but the room that 's built on does n't have a closet 
so the people that lived here before us did use it for a bedroom 
it 's kind of a catch all room . 
but it sure is nice to have it when the kids come over to play 
they all go out there to play with the barbies and that kind of stuff , 
how fun . 
that works out good . 
and i 'm thankful i have two girls , because they 're in bunk beds , 
and so they can share a room and make for more space that way . 
and how old 's the youngest ? 
she 's three and a half 
and right now we have their clothes on double racks in the closet 
we made a higher and a lower 
and it works out fine , 
but they 're just about to get too tall , where the dresses are beginning to drag , 
and we 're going to have to figure out a new idea . 
but we 're kind of looking around and wanting to move into a bigger home hoping to be able to do that within a year or so 
so that would be nice . 
that 's what we 'd like to do . 
is coppell a nice area to live ? 
it 's a wonderful place to live , 
i do n't have any kids , 
so i do n't really know , 
but they say that we have wonderful schools . 
i think i 've heard a lot about coppell schools , that they 're real good 
that 's neat . 
do you hope to have children , 
or are you not planning on having any , 
i do n't think so , 
i see . 
do you have any pets ? 
of course , those are my kids 
i have two dogs . 
do they stay inside , 
they 're inside dogs . 
that 's neat . 
they 're my babies . 
what are the colors in your house ? 
kind of a mauve and gray . 
i bet that 's pretty . 
and then the kitchen 's kind of a country pink and country blue , 
and it 's all done in cows , 
i 'm a cow nut . 
that 's neat . 
i like cows , too . 
our house is very old also 
it 's thirty-seven years old 
i 'm thankful for that , 
it was redone at the time when earth tones were in 
the carpet 's kind of a tan and brown and has paneling in the living room , and lots of tans and lots of browns 
but the good thing is you can bring out other colors from that 
so that 's worked out good . 
in the kitchen they put real pretty blue and tan wallpaper had done it up with blues , 
so that 's nice , 
but 
sounds pretty . 
we 've enjoyed living here . 
it 's close to my oldest daughter 's school 
and that makes it really handy , too 
and she really likes her school , 
and we are so close to shopping 
that 's an important factor there . 
how about in coppell ? 
i 've always imagined it kind of out , away from everything . 
now we have that new mall in lewisville 
and that 's just a mile or two from our house 
that 's nice . 
but , when we first moved to coppell six years ago , we did n't even have a grocery store 
and now we have four 
and coppell 's not really big enough to support four grocery stores 
but it does sound like it 's definitely growing . 
very much . 
i moved down here from chicago twenty-three years ago to lewisville 
and coppell 's now about the size that lewisville was when i moved down here . 
i see . 
when we first moved here , we moved here from lubbock 
and we almost moved to lewisville , 
that was our second choice behind garland , 
at the time we thought we might buy a mobile home , 
my name 's gail . 
i 'm calling from texas . 
i 'm sandy . 
i 'm in texas , too . 
what a deal . 
took long enough to find you . 
seems like they take forever any more , 
did you hear what the topic was 
did she tell you , 
if you 're ready , then i 'll just go ahead and start . 
hold on . 
i guess we 're supposed to talk about the changing roles of women . 
seems like to me , everything is just changing so much that it 's almost like you ca n't keep up with things any more , 
and everyone 's striving so much to make it equal between men and women , 
personally , i 'm a stay home mom , 
and i like it the way it used to be . 
so am i . 
are you , 
i think it 's kind of coming back around to that , do n't you , 
i mean , that there 's a lot more people that stay home now than before , 
but i guess more than anything i think maybe people were just kind of wanting to have the choice of what they could do 
i do n't know , 
i think sometimes some of the women 's lib though , is kind of like they wanted it all , 
and you ca n't have everything 
there 's no way i could have a career and then be the kind of mom that i want to be 
and to me that 's more important . 
how many kids do you have ? 
two . 
two ? 
are they young , 
five and two . 
five and two . 
i have two , 
and mine are two and nine months , 
i just am fortunate because i do n't know a real lot of moms that get to stay home , 
and it 's just weird that i was just talking to somebody this morning who 's a working mom , 
and these people have secretaries and these high power jobs , 
she told me now her daughter took her first steps at the day care , 
and i just do n't agree with that . 
i think it should be that people should get back to staying home and being more family oriented than not . 
it seems like everybody 's always so busy with everything that they 're doing that there 's no time for this and that and the other , 
and i hope it just does n't get to where there 's more and more women going into the work force . 
i agree , 
but , i hate for them to make people feel bad that have to work , too , saying you should stay home , otherwise your children are n't going to turn out , or whatever because that 's not fair to the single moms that have to work , 
or , if they would n't be able to make ends meet not working or whatever , 
i think it 's got to be a personal choice , 
and , it 's nice that we could have the choice to stay home . 
just over the weekend i visited my family , and some cousins i had n't seen in a long time , 
and everyone 's all interested in what everybody 's doing , 
and i had my baby with me , 
and i found that all i talked about was my baby , which was fine with me , 
but it 's like here these people are , 
they 're going to school , getting degrees , making all this money , 
and they kind of looked at me like i was from the dark ages because i did n't have really all that much to talk about where career and things like that were concerned , 
and you kind of feel little bit like an outcast for a while in social situations sometimes , 
which is too bad , because obviously i do n't get paid for my job , 
but i should get paid at least double what my husband makes working in an office for staying home 
that 's what i figure , 
i 'm worth a lot just for what i do every day , 
but i do n't know , 
this is kind of a , 
i 'm not from here , 
i 'm from colorado , 
but i 've really noticed that there are a lot more people that are more comfortable , at least , with some women being home at least in the circles i 've travelled and in the church that i go to , 
men do n't treat you like you do n't know anything , generally speaking . 
and i think a lot of companies are realizing this and offering more opportunities as far as job sharing or even having a day care on site and that kind of stuff , 
and i think that 's really important that they do that 
and they realize there 's a need for that , 
and i do n't know , 
i found when i did do some work when my son was young , it was contract work , 
and it was n't where i had to be there every day , 
but we were going to the doctor once a week , 
so , i do n't know how you could have a full time job and ever have any vacation time to do anything besides go to the doctor . 
i can see where that would definitely hinder the problem , 
do you have any pets ? 
i do . 
i have a dog named grisly , who 's a ten year old mixed breed between golden retriever , afghan hound and chow . 
and i have a pair of box turtles . 
i used to have box turtles years ago , when i was growing up 
i really like them . 
i do , too . 
lucky and spot , that 's their names 
and they live in an aquarium without water in my family room , 
and my dog thinks he 's a mother turtle , and always has his nose all around my turtle box , 
so do you have any pets now ? 
we have one dog , a bichon frise . 
our friends in houston bred the dogs . 
i had never heard of them 
i have n't either . 
, they 're all white 
and they 're small and fluffy , 
they do n't shed . 
i guess they 're distantly related to a poodle , 
but they 're not very well known in this country , 
and they 're not high strung or over bred . 
and how big do they get . 
ours is on the small end , 
and she 's about ten pounds , 
and they range from probably ten to sixteen pounds 
that 's interesting . 
and they love people and kids 
and that was something we were looking for , 
our love is golden retrievers , 
and that 's what we had intended to get in houston , 
but we had a small yard and a pool 
and knowing how they love to dig and love the water we thought that was kind of a tough climate 
the water , 
so we ended up getting this , 
and my son would rather have a golden retriever , though , i think 
now he wants a good size dog . 
we 've got a good size dog , 
and we were considering getting a puppy , a small house , lap top dog for him , because he likes other animals and for me , because we used to have a miniature dachshund , 
and i miss having a little one around . 
the kind you have sounds very interesting , though . 
they 're really sweet dogs . 
we thought probably our neighborhood in houston had more of this breed than any other place just because of the family that had them and bred them . 
they had five litters of puppies , 
and a lot of them stayed in the neighborhood 
and how do you spell that breed ? 
it 's b i c h o n f r i s e . 
f r i s e . 
and how do you pronounce that ? 
bichon frise . 
i 'm writing it out phonetically , 
and they do n't shed 
so they 're good dogs for people with allergies , 
and they love people , 
do they bark a lot ? 
not really . 
ours barks more than some , because she spent a lot of time at our friends ' house . 
we used to swap back and forth dogs . 
they have three dogs . 
they had a cockapoo , and two bichons , 
and she did n't bark at all until she spent time there 
and now it 's funny . 
she 's a good watch dog 
but she also talks a lot , 
she has a definite personality 
and so , if we 're leaving her , she barks at us , because she does n't want to be left . 
does she ever mess in the house ? 
and they 're very smart dogs . 
the circuses in europe used to use them for the acts . 
they 'll dance on their hind legs 
but they 're very easy to train 
and about how much are they ? 
they range , 
i 'd noticed up here they 're a lot more expensive it seemed to me from the ads in the paper . 
they run anywhere from two hundred to four hundred dollars which i thought was a lot . 
and how about the person in houston ? 
she 's no longer breeding them 
but because her dogs the second one that she has was one of the puppies from the litter , and the one male that she used had a tooth problem 
and so she only bred that dog once because it had the tooth problem , and did them strictly as pets 
they were n't show quality . 
just pets , 
we used to show saint bernards when i was a little girl . 
we did that every weekend , 
but takes a lot of time . 
and it 's very expensive . 
but she might have some contacts here , 
i know that the dog 's grandmother was from plano , 
that 's where i live , 
that 's where i live , too . 
i 'm at coit and legacy ... 
how did you like that topic ? 
i do n't know , 
i 've got mixed feelings about the topic . 
do you ? 
i do n't . 
i 'm pretty opinionated about that and many other things as you well know . 
i agree with it . 
i think a company should be able to test any employee any time they see fit . 
i just do n't think there 's a place in our environment in the work force for drugs , or alcohol either . 
i do n't believe in drugs or alcohol , 
but if you 'll remember when the teachers had to take the t cat they were talking about drug testing us 
and we were laughing that we 'd have to go to that examination to prove we could read and write with a specimen of urine 
and we found it belittling . 
you did ? 
i can sort of understand that , 
but not being a teacher , as you are i was not quite as sympathetic as i probably would have been if kay were a teacher or something . 
that 's true . 
because i look at airline pilots bus drivers people that really have other peoples ' lives in their hands truck drivers 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
it 's supposed to be a huge problem with truck drivers using drugs and alcohol , 
that 's right 
and i think it is a big problem with them using drugs from what you read , 
in those areas i really do believe that maybe we should clean up our house . 
i think so too , 
i agree with it . 
i know kay 's company , 
they started it couple of years ago , 
and so many of the people , even the professional people they were so against them doing that , 
and i thought , to me it 's quite simple , 
you either need a job 
or you do n't . 
the job is what provides all of your needs , 
and if they say , you ca n't do this work , i 'd say , i agree , 
i wo n't do that . 
and i think most of them have agreed to that now , although they did n't like it at first . 
i think it 's just like anything else , a new concept , 
as i said , if i have to go to a testing area with my urine specimen i was insulted , 
it is , 
that is belittling , 
i 'd probably feel the same way if i had to do that . 
but at the same token , in education we ca n't do random drug testing on kids 
that 's true , 
their rights are protected . 
you bet . 
they would really raise a stink if that was to happen . 
what 
but if you 're going to do teachers or professionals , why not do the kids , when we see them and they 're under the influence . 
i agree with that . 
i would n't be opposed to it at all , 
it 's just our bleeding heart liberals that would fight it tooth and nail 
that 's true . 
but lynn , i 've enjoyed talking with you . 
i do n't know how long we 're supposed to carry on a conversation , do you ? 
it 's three minutes , 
we 'd better keep talking because i 've not heard it have we . 
have you heard it ? 
anyway , we both sort of agree on it , do n't we about random testing . 
do we agree , or unless it 's not me . 
listen , 
here we go again 
and there was an incident in my children 's high school , where a teacher stayed drunk , 
is that right ? 
you just do n't think of that happening with teachers 
i really do n't , 
when i think of drug testing , i 'm thinking of the outside of education . 
we are as susceptible a society as anybody else 
i know that , 
but you do n't think of that first hand , normally . 
did you hear on the news where the teacher of the year was up for child molestation . 
is n't that mind boggling , 
it was on the news tonight . 
i agree with you , 
i know teachers are just like everybody else , 
same problems the same good qualities as anybody else . 
then , i think if push came to shove , i 'd probably be drug tested , 
because as i say , i 'm sitting there fussing and fussing , 
and yet , i know of one teacher who was an alcoholic in school as well as out , 
and that was in your children 's high school , 
is n't that amazing , 
and my children brought it to my attention . 
i never was there to see it . 
if it was true there , i 'm sure it 's true with just about every school there is 
and that 's not giving a good example to students . 
they do n't need that example 
i 'm ready . 
so we 're going to talk about what kind of clothes we wear while we work . 
do you work for t i ? 
i work at home . 
you do , 
you 're like me then . 
i stay home also . 
do you have children ? 
i have two , a seven year old and three and a half year old . 
that 's good . 
how about you ? 
i have four girls 
they 're nine and five and three and a newborn . 
you are busy 
and they 're all girls , 
i have two girls , 
so , all girls around here . 
girls are nice , are n't they ? 
really sweet . 
as far as clothing goes my wardrobe changes all the time , depending on my size . 
that 's how i am too . 
we go from regular kind of spring clothes regular kind of fall clothes pregnant clothes , clothes that are in between where you 're not down to regular size yet or you 're on your way up from regular size 
that 's funny . 
and they 're all in boxes or bags , 
and they all rotate all the time 
kind of the same stuff all the time , though , 
i do n't get a whole lot new right now , 
i know that 's kind of how i am . 
i said , who ever i talk to is going to be board , because when it 's summer time , i 'm wearing shorts , 
and when it 's cold , i 'm wearing sweat pants , unless i 'm going to something special that my daughter 's doing , or something like that , 
i like jeans a lot . 
that 's good . 
i used to wear jeans all the time until after i had kids , 
and now nothing seems to be comfortable because i bulge in all the wrong places , 
and it 's frustrating , 
i find i have to get the right kinds , though , or it 's not comfortable 
it works best if they have pleats in the front 
my waist is kind of small compared to the hips , 
so it has to be not the straight up and down levis kind . 
i know what you mean . 
i was pregnant through the summer this time 
and i wore dresses all the time because it was so much cooler and so much more comfortable not to have something binding on your waist 
that 's right . 
one of my daughters was born in june , 
and i remember , i wore sundresses and just those real cool dresses almost the entire time . 
and i had one that was born in december , 
so even into november and december i was still wearing the short sleeve dresses , 
course i 'm always hot when i 'm pregnant , too , 
i did n't really need warm clothes 
but i really have been spoiled by sweat pants and these new units outfits that are just knit , 
i have n't tried those , 
they are so comfortable . 
it 's just a light weight kind of like a sweat suit but made out of that real light polyester stuff , 
and it 's just great because you can decorate them up , or dress them up , if you want , 
or you can just wear them with tennis shoes if you want . 
so they 're really nice 
and i 've enjoyed wearing those 
i do n't know if they expected us to talk about blazers and such here 
but i sure never wear them . 
i do n't either , 
if we had professional jobs where we go into an office and have to wear a jacket or something that would make a big difference . 
i worked part time when my oldest was a baby 
and i had to wear a dress every day , 
and it was a little bit hard to wind down , 
i 'm watching , janice , 
i would have to drive six thirty five home 
and i would be burning up in the summer time 
by the time i got home i was i 've got to get out of these clothes . 
i worked way before i was married , even , 
but offices , they keep them so cold in the summer that you ca n't wear regular summer clothes and be comfortable 
you 've got to have something to add to it or something 
you burn up , 
because i always hated to run my air conditioner just sitting still all the time 
i was afraid i 'd make the car overheat . 
it 's hard on the car . 
so i would roll my windows down , 
it was still a hundred degrees 
and i would just be sweltering hot by the time i picked my daughter up , 
and i had a friend who used to take shorts to work , 
and after work she 'd go in the bathroom and change her clothes 
that 's funny , 
at least something cooler , 
because you can ruin your good clothes getting so hot in them especially if it 's something that has to be dry cleaned , which i do n't have any of . 
that 's true , 
i do n't have to worry a whole lot about that . 
even when i go to church i have to have something i can just throw in the washer when i 'm through . 
that 's right , 
something that it does n't matter if it gets spit up on , too . 
that 's right , 
or if you get it dirty or whatever , 
i know it . 
i 've always been a creature of comfort , too 
me , too . 
if it 's not comfortable , forget it . 
i know , 
that 's how i am , too , 
wool was never comfortable to me . 
me neither , 
do you see anything wrong with public school systems ? 
i do . 
i think i 'm concerned about the large number of children that each teacher is expected to deal with in some quality way . 
i think maybe we 've given our teachers a almost impossible job . 
i agree . 
do you ? 
do you have children in the public school system ? 
and i taught for fourteen years before we moved to texas , 
is that right . 
and the one thing i see is changing is i was held accountable so much 
i had to document and create a paper chase for all of my students , 
and instead of spending my time coming up with creative learning stations and things like that i was filling out all these forms for all the children 
you were a bookkeeper . 
everything had to be documented , 
and i had file cabinets that were n't filled with neat stuff for kids , 
it was filled with documentation 
i have three years toward a teaching degree and am trying to get headed back , 
i love to work with children and to teach them , 
me , too . 
but i 'm really having questions if i can deal with that system and have a good conscience about what i do . 
i do n't think it 's the teachers , 
i think it 's the system 
i think so too . 
they 're so worried about lawsuits and the scores the children get on tests now and teacher competency , 
and it 's not like the teacher can just get in there and do her best , 
she 's always worried who 's looking over her shoulder 
what child 's going to say something some parent 's going to overreact to 
that 's right . 
i know . 
that 's true . 
it 's hard on the children too , because the teachers are overworked 
and just like a mommy that 's overworked you 're not at your best . 
that 's right . 
do you have children in the system ? 
i have two , 
one is in ninth grade 
and one is in seventh grade , 
and them i 'm home schooling my kindergartner this year . 
we live in a district that has open classrooms , 
and i was n't particularly comfortable with that for her . 
are you in plano ? 
i am too . 
you too . 
and i have one in ninth grade at clark and one at hendrick this year , 
and my sixth grader came from an open classroom at matthews , 
and the very first year i taught back in seventy-three , we had open classroom 
and it did n't work then 
and when we moved down here , i was just appalled that they were still doing it here , 
still at it . 
they seemed to admit that it was n't working , 
but they did n't have the money to restructure , 
but looks to me that it would n't take really that much money to at least come up with some kind of partitions , 
partitions 
or just to face the children different directions or to do something 
just , 
i know last year my son had to eat in the classroom because there was no cafeteria at his school 
so he spent all day in this one large open area , 
so , i did n't really care for that . 
it seems like the schools in michigan were much better than they are down here . 
were they ? 
that was our last tour , in michigan . 
we were from north carolina , 
and of course north carolina has a terrible reputation as far as education . 
i think they rank about forty-ninth 
but our children got a very good education there 
they were in the magnet school program , 
from the time they were about third grade , they changed classes several times during the day , which has its pros and cons , 
but a lot of their classes there were only eight or ten children in their classes 
and it was wonderful 
so i 'm coming to plano thinking , it 's going to be really great , 
it 's ranked so much better . 
that 's right . 
we heard wonderful things about it until we actually got in the system . 
is n't that interesting , 
i do n't understand how they get this reputation unless it 's just that they spend a lot of money , 
i do n't know . 
probably so , 
on publicity and letting realtors know and key people how wonderful the schools are 
i guess so . 
my son is at clark this year too , 
as a freshman ? 
and he 's pleased with his classes . 
i do n't guess i 've been in the high school long enough to know what to expect really how to judge it . 
my daughter seems to be having a good time , 
she was absent with strep throat the last three days , 
and i ran over and picked up her report card , 
and she did very good , 
and she seems to be studying and has just about the right amount of home work i would expect for a freshman to have . 
that 's good . 
she 's not bogged down , 
but yet she has some every night . 
eric seems to have quite a few nights where he does n't have any , 
so , that 's interesting , 
but , his grades , i have n't seen them yet , 
but supposedly they 're good , 
you always hear how good . 
my son 's at , junior high and says that his grades are going to be wonderful 
but , who knows what he 's going to bring home . 
that 's right . 
i missed a part of it . 
we 're to talk about what , lawns and gardens ? 
lawn and garden work and what you enjoy and what kind of work you do . 
i 'm a putterer . 
i chose that topic because i really like gardening as far as flowers and shrubs and just keeping a pretty yard . 
it 's very strange that i got this call because my wife just called me . 
i was just in the shower after finishing mowing the lawn and removing some old petunias out of the garden , 
this type of thing is working right in to start planting fall bulbs . 
we 've had a late fall 
in fact today it 's really warm , 
and so many of the summer flowers are still pretty enough that you hate to pull them up , 
but you need to pretty soon . 
that 's the way this was . 
the petunias were really great . 
our mums are beautiful , 
i do n't think we 've had a frost up here . 
i was down in mumblex for a week , 
so i do n't know what happened last week 
but i do n't know if it 's late . 
i 'm sort of waiting for indian summer 
so i can get a lot of stuff down out here . 
i enjoy it . 
we moved in in november and put all the landscaping in this year . 
we came from nine years in a condo , 
and working in that condo , you did n't have to do anything unless you really wanted to , 
now you have the chance to really create and spread out . 
this is my third house i 've owned , 
but it 's interesting , 
the only problem is that i do quite a bit of traveling , 
and it sort of gets away from me if you 're not with it . 
but , i enjoy most of it , 
and about this time of year it starts getting a little old , 
and i start looking forward to having other things to do with my mumblex . 
the grass not growing so fast . 
it is for me 
because i 've been doing a lot of fertilizing . 
we had a terrible summer , 
we had a drought 
and took a lot of watering and a lot of fertilizing , 
and now it 's really growing 
and i 'm trying to establish a good root growth for the winter . 
ours seems to have slowed down here . 
we 're not having to mow every week religiously 
but we 're still fighting bugs , and ready to change some of the summer flowers out 
i still have caladiums that are pretty , which is a surprise this late in the year . 
but today , it 's eighty-five degrees 
it 's really strange , 
i hear that from , my brother-in-law lives in plano , 
but that 'll change real quick . 
we 'll wish we 'd planted bulbs and pansies already . 
he waits until it gets about seventeen below up here 
and then he calls us , 
it 's seventy degrees here in the sunshine . 
texas has gotten to where it 's a real problem as far as plants , because our summers are so terribly hot 
and we have ice storms every year . 
and there just are n't that many plants and shrubs that can take both of those extremes . 
some of the things that used to be hardy are getting to where they do n't make it through the two swings . 
i was conditioned to it 
they have to be hardened to it 
that 's strange with me . 
you think , dallas almost semitropical , you would n't have that kind of problem , 
for the most part we do n't , 
but we have usually just a pocket of really bad hot and really bad cold . 
the summers have gotten where they 're a lot hotter 
but the ice storms really are stressful on all the plants that we have around . 
we 've noticed that crepe myrtles do n't do as well as they used to and pittosporum 
do they . 
that used to be the kind of things we could plant all the time 
you really take a chance with them freezing , 
i love the landscaping , 
i get to carrollton quite a bit . 
i go there on business , 
and i really enjoy getting around and seeing the different areas with different gardens , 
and dallas is very nice . 
i really enjoy it there . the landscaping , the homes , the architecture , the whole thing 
very enjoyable gardens , 
except for the lack of trees , out where we are . 
it was all cotton fields , 
and when we get to other parts of the country where the trees are so beautiful , we really miss it . 
ohio 's a very pretty state . 
in seventy-six we moved to chicago , 
we lived there for five years , 
and i remember the first time i took my wife there on a house hunt , 
we were coming in 
and before the plane landed she looked out the window 
and she said , there 's no trees down there . 
this is illinois , 
and , when we got out to the area where we decided we were going to live and buy a house , there were no trees because the farmers had cleared all the land 
and now all of a sudden it was being developed , 
and the first thing i did was planted all kinds of trees , 
do you have any ? 
i have a springer spaniel , 
and her name is thumper . 
she 's about seven or eight years old . 
i got her for christmas from my family back when we lived in nebraska . 
i like to hunt , 
and so , i thought that if i had a good hunting dog like thumper that i could just go out and get all kinds of game . 
did it work ? . 
except we live in plano , texas now 
for many years i had a dog that was part springer spaniel . 
i just love them . 
her name was molly , 
but she is n't alive any more . 
we had her for fifteen years and just loved her . 
she was the greatest , went through two generations of children in my family and was always very gentle . 
do you have a pet now ? 
i have a cat now . 
he just turned seven , also , 
and i , got him in arizona when i used to live there , 
and he is huge . 
he is eighteen pounds . 
what kind of cat is it ? 
just , 
i got him , 
he was born in the wild in a shed and had never been in a building when i got him . 
and he must be cross part with some kind of desert animal , because he 's very long and lanky , 
but he 's a very tame spoiled house cat now that i 've had him for seven years . 
being born outside , you did n't have any problems house training him ? 
that 's good . 
he 's great , 
and he 's really spoiled , though . 
but he 's really big , 
so , lots of times he seems to get in fights , 
and when he was younger i think he started them , 
and now , i think he barely makes it . 
i think he gets beat up even though he 's big , because he 's pretty much overweight , and comes home with a few scratches now and then , 
and older . 
we went to a cat show at the plano center here in town , 
we have a cat now , 
but we thought , if we ever get another cat we 'd want something kind of unique , 
so , we kind of looked around , 
and they had everything from hairless cats to siamese cats and persian cats 
and we sort of fell in love with the maine coon cats . 
i 've seen them . 
they 're huge . 
i have seen them . 
actually , i ca n't remember , 
they used to be used on ships and for mousers , 
so they 're very nautical , too . 
i 'll be darned . 
i did n't know that . 
i think i 'm being accurate in the area of folklore , 
but i 'm not sure . 
that 's interesting . 
my family did n't necessarily like them as much as i did , 
but the manx , is that the one that does n't have a tail 
it sort of has a bob tail . 
i kind of like that , too , 
i 'd love to go to a cat show . 
i 'm a real cat lover . 
i 'd have a lot more cats if my boyfriend would let me . 
he does n't really like mine , let alone another one . 
i 'll tell you an interesting story about how i got my dog , 
and then i suppose our five minutes will be up . 
i work for a university , 
and i went to omaha , nebraska to recruit students , 
and i had some time off in the afternoon , 
so i went to a pet shop , 
and i saw these little springer spaniels 
and so i decided , this would really be a nice dog to have , 
so , when i got back home to carney , nebraska , i told my wife about it , 
i can just hear the dog crying for me now . 
i know what you mean . 
and christmas is coming up , 
and so , i had to go back the next week , as well as a bunch of other people from the university , 
and one of the people that we went with they were friends of ours , 
and so , we got to omaha , 
and i decided i 'd take my friend over and show him the dog , 
and so i got over there , 
and she said , that 's too bad , 
the dog has already been sold . 
and i did n't realize it , 
but this guy had somehow worked it out so that he got there a little bit earlier , bought the dog , 
and she was in the back room , 
and so that night we had a reception for some of the potential high school students or college students , 
and , he had the dog the whole time in his room , 
and i had no idea . 
and so we headed back to carney that night , 
and the dog rode in the car 
and we stopped along the way and had a bite to eat 
and they left the dog in the car , 
and i guess while we were inside eating , thumper just tore the heck out of the inside of the car , 
and finally we made it back to carney 
where do you enjoy dining out ? 
i generally go to the quickie places just because they 're cheap . 
do you have children ? 
we have four , 
but most of them are gone now 
but we were taking four , five and six people out . 
that makes a difference , does n't it . 
what area of the country do you live in ? 
i 'm in texas . 
i am , too . 
and we lived in ohio prior to this . 
i did , too . 
i 'm from the dayton area . 
we were up near cleveland . 
but i look for service even at the quickie places type things . 
i do n't like to go to the drive-thrus because sometimes they get your order wrong 
that 's right . 
and then you 're stuck 
and it 's a pain to have to stand there and see what it is before you leave 
so i really do n't like the drive-thrus that much . 
i like to go and eat there . 
but i would say service atmosphere , and whether the food is good , 
and on going out , i like steaks . 
so , we try to hit those places when we can . 
when we travel we look for wendy 's because we have kids , 
and my husband and i like getting the salads or the lighter meals 
and then that way they can get their burgers and fries 
and we can have a salad bar 
so sometimes we drive for a couple hundred miles until we find a wendy 's , because it 's all either mcdonald 's or dairy queens , 
that 's right , 
that 's what you find , 
i know . 
my husband likes dairy queens . 
he likes their milk shakes and their chili cheese dogs , i guess , 
so he 's a fan of dairy queen , 
and we 'll go even in town here at times , just as a change although i 'm not that excited about it . 
but we eat out so much it 's gotten so i do n't like to really eat any place 
but yet i hate to cook food at home 
so that might be why i look for inexpensive places just because we 're eating out probably five nights a week maybe . 
or we eat junk food at home 
what are some of your favorite inexpensive places ? 
we 'll go to them all . 
we sort of take turns . 
if i have a coupon we can go there 
and if not we ca n't , because it 's cheaper 
so mine is , strongly monetarily based . 
we 'll go get pizza at little caesar 's , although the kids prefer domino 's . 
we are little caesar fans here 
that 's where we always go , 
but it 's just a lot cheaper than domino 's , 
we go to grandy 's quite a bit i would say . 
we like grandy 's , too . 
mcdonald 's we 've sort of been off of that for a while 
and no particular reason , 
maybe we avoided wendy 's the last few years because our daughter worked there 
and she never wanted us to show up there 
so , we do n't go there that much . 
where do you go if you like to have a nice meal out , or a big meal ? 
a nice meal 
where do you go for steaks ? 
it 's usually when we 're out of town 
and i 'll order steak or steak and lobster combined 
so it 's really not in town . 
you ever been to houston 's on belt line ? 
that 's where we go to get steaks 
they have a teriyaki steak there , 
and when we have something to celebrate , we head to houston 's . 
they do n't take reservations , 
and you wind up waiting about an hour 
but the food is good , 
and they 've got a nice patio area that you can wait and get something to drink , unless you get there at five o'clock , 
then you can go right through . 
but they have real good signature salads there and nice steaks , 
so , that 's our nice place to go . 
we do n't usually take the kids when we go there , 
i guess we do go out without kids . 
we 're usually picking things up quickly , 
though we just do n't dwell on food too much , 
and with my husband traveling he can get all he needs of that during the week going to those places 
that 's right . 
so , it does n't really matter to him . 
he 'd probably just like to stay home . 
that 's the way with my husband . 
he 's gone during the week and likes to eat at home on the weekends , 
and i 've been eating at home all week long with the kids and would like to go out somewhere , 
so we have a conflict of interests on the weekend . 
i think , i never have liked to cook food , 
it was mainly baseball teams 
and my husband would coach , 
so we were never home at the same time . 
i 'm not one that 's going to fix the meal at two o'clock in the afternoon so they can eat it all day whenever they 're there . 
if they 're not there in between five and six then i guess we do n't eat today , 
or you fend for yourself . 
you go somewhere else . 
so that really snowballed when we got down here , when i started to sub , make money , 
i went , 
i did hear the end of the prompt this time . 
was that you , that we did n't hear the whole prompt ? 
and it said do we think that , certain crimes should fit certain punishments , 
and i was thinking about it after i got off the phone , that i really wish that there was some way to send a message to people about child abuse and things like that 
those kind of crimes deserve some kind of severe punishment . 
i 'm not sure , 
i sometimes have a problem with some of the more famous people who all of a sudden are crawling out of the woodwork to say that whatever problems they have was because they were abused as children . 
and the parents are saying , wait a minute , 
we did n't do anything like that , 
and i guess before i 'd like to see that severe of a punishment for it it has to be an absolute certainty like caught at it , or something 
i do n't buy the routine , they 're just sick , 
or they were abused when they were little 
forget that . 
sometimes they even wonder when , criminals plead temporary insanity for crimes that are so severe and then they get sent to a mental institution 
and they play loony for a while , 
and then they 're back out in public . 
but i ca n't see that either . 
i do n't feel that that should be any excuse at all or any reason to not use capital punishment . 
i agree , 
i agree , 
i think if i wanted to badly enough , i could convince somebody i was crazy , 
so , my family may say that on occasion , 
who knows 
i do n't think it 's that hard to do to convince somebody that you just had no control over what you were doing , 
and too they can always be blaming the other person , 
she looked like my mother who abused me when i was a child , or something , which i think is , unfortunate for that person and yet should n't be an excuse . 
and i was just seeing in the newspaper or the grocery store that some miss america was abused by the man she loved 
that 's the new one . 
i just happened to see the headline on it , 
and i could n't realize if it was the husband or the father or what , 
but i thought if children are being abused , i 'm wondering how our school system is failing , that they 're not even seeing this , 
if it was that severe that when they 're later in life adults , that it 's all of a sudden affecting them in this way , that it was n't shown up at all when they were younger , 
and that kind of worries me with my kids only being under two and not having to deal with that yet , 
you 're right , 
and yet did you ever in your life when you were little know anybody or hear anything of anything like this ? 
never 
anything can go on in california . 
but i was from conservative wisconsin , 
and there was , nothing on it , which makes me wonder if it 's as prevalent as some of them claim . 
you just do n't know , 
unless they 're caught in the act or the child is very badly beaten up , it comes down to a one word against the other that type thing . 
it used to be just capital murder , 
and now they added mass murder . 
i really would have no idea . 
i do n't really know . 
because i have a feeling it is , 
and i think there ought to be more things added to it . 
that would be pretty lenient in my opinion . 
killing a child , or kidnapping 
and possibly not 
i guess kidnapping maybe if the person gets very badly hurt , 
if they release them two hours later , he probably does n't deserve the death penalty , 
i 'll just go with you first . 
what kind of eating out do you enjoy ? 
i like dining out . 
of course , it means that i do n't have to cook . 
but i 'm a divorced woman . 
i have one child 
and when we dine out we go to medium priced restaurants . 
i think it 's sort of a waste of money to go to a real high priced restaurant . 
do you go home cooking , like black-eyed pea and that kind of thing or cafeteria ? 
not really . 
we go more for the chinese and italian and stuff like that . mexican , stuff that i ca n't cook . 
me too . 
mexican , 
we do too . 
we do the same . 
what are your favorite places ? 
i like chinese food . 
there 's a little place down on coit road chinese pavilion or something . 
that is really good 
and i like it . 
and i do like chinese buffets . 
we 've gone to august moon 
and we think that was real good 
but our favorite when you have a little more to spend , is to go to taiwan or may dragon . 
and those are excellent . 
they 're really a nice place you could take someone to eat . 
it 's not the rinky chinese decorations 
but it 's a very elegant nice place to eat . 
very often we go out for fajitas . 
my husband has just gotten stuck . 
and some of those 
and get fajitas , 
and he 'll just eat chips until we 've got three or four baskets coming back . 
and then last weekend we went out for italian also , 
and for some reason the cooler weather makes me tend to want to go eat lasagna and garlic bread . 
so , we went to el sorrento . 
have you ever tried pappasito 's ? 
it was fun . 
you know , what ? 
that 's real funny you said that because we were coming back sunday on central from church 
and bob pointed to it 
and he said , `` i keep hearing good things about that place , 
we 're going to have to go . '' 
it is delicious . 
in fact , you 're about the third or fourth person in the last month that said that . 
so i guess we 'll have to do it . 
you always stand in line when you go 
but it 's worth the wait . 
d magazine said that . 
it said there was always a line . 
but that 's a good sign . 
we did . 
my kids did n't like it because they just wanted to get plain old spaghetti or lasagna , 
and most of those things were a little more northern italy . 
and they like just the traditional . 
they 're the spaghetti warehouse type . 
they are . 
the place of the seventies . 
but my little girl likes spaghetti warehouse real well . 
most kids do . 
it 's real entertaining for her . 
do you ever go for steak ? just a steak and potato and salad bar , that kind of thing . 
not really . 
a steak is something that i cook at home that you grill out 
i 'm real curious to try this one that has such commercials . that del lincoln 
and what is that guy 's name ? 
they do those real corny commercials . 
there 's one over there in addison . 
i ca n't remember his name . 
steak . 
it 's some famous steak place over in addison . 
there 's a second one downtown , 
and they have these really corny radio commercials 
but their steak is supposed to be wonderful . 
so , i had not tried that . 
my husband was saying that up north they have such nice restaurants where you can go after a theater or after the movie . 
we found those one time 
and then they discontinued . 
it was over in addison . 
and then they closed up . 
so most of these places are pretty much just theme restaurants around here . 
i think that 's what really goes right now in the dallas area . 
of course , next to downtown up around mckinney and everything there 's a different class of restaurants up there that i ca n't even touch . 
that 's exactly true . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
it would probably take my whole paycheck just to go in and have one meal up there 
that 's right . 
i had a friend who was taken to lawry 's downtown for prime rib 
and i have n't been . 
we usually do n't go for beef really anymore . 
where , 
we 've gotten so used to doing chicken and things at home that that 's usually the way we 'll go if we 're not going lasagna . 
when i go out , it 's normally to get some specialty type of food 
besides chicken and steaks and everything i grill at home . 
i know . 
i understand . 
and really they 're a lot better than what i get in the restaurant . 
that 's right , 
and save you some money too . 
that 's right . 
saves you a little bit money . 
what 's your child 's favorite place to eat ? 
favorite place , 
she has a lot , 
taco bell . 
they 're easy . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
mine enjoy that too . 
they like to go pretty much where we like to go 
and then our favorite thing on fridays , we generally order pizza in 
so not pizza inn , but pizza to our house . 
so we 've done . 
is there anything else you 'd like to discuss about it ? 
not that i know of . 
i think it 's come to an eye conclusion 
so i 'll talk with you later . 
thank you . 
thank you . 
do you have children ? 
we have two sons . 
one 's a freshman in college 
and one 's a sophomore in high school . 
and you ? 
i have one that 's a freshman in high school , a daughter . and a son who 's a sixth grader in a middle school . 
and i spend most of my time carpooling . 
the story of my life . 
my kids are involved in sports . 
my daughter has played basketball for six years , 
and my son plays football . 
my rule is that they ca n't play a sport the same time of the year , because there 's just not enough of me to drive them around everywhere . 
it really helped when the older one was old enough to get his license and could drive around by himself although that brought in a whole other set of problems . 
i know , 
i know . 
the insurance . 
for one thing . 
but 
we do 
but there was not much overlap as such . 
the older one was not at all into sports for the most part . 
band and , scouts were his two big things . 
my son , is in both band and scouts too . 
and the younger one is the sports one 
and whatever season it is he 's playing , although football is really his favorite . 
so 
we spend a lot of time carpooling and then trying to be up as much as possible with anything that they do . 
just family time . 
at a fairly young age we started teaching them to play games and card games and so forth . 
but we did n't do it as much or as often as i would have liked to . 
i would like to do that as a family and some t v watching . 
what about you ? 
we found this oriental tile game called mah-jongg . 
i 've heard of that . 
have you ? 
i 've never actually played it . 
it 's really fun . 
one of my neighbors moved here from memphis 
and a lot of them played it , 
and she started a group going in the neighborhood 
and my kids wanted to learn how to play it 
and it 's more fun with four people . 
and it 's a game that none of their friends know how to play , 
and they both enjoy it . 
so if they want to play , they have to play with mom and dad . 
so we play that a lot , 
and we like to go miniature golfing and to movies . 
we have family that lives outside of the state 
so we go visit both sets of grandparents and take car trips . 
so do we . 
and my husband and son go camping with scouts mostly . 
my daughter and i hate camping 
so we go shopping . 
so that just kind of works out real well . 
and i 'm a writer by profession 
and my daughter enjoys writing too , 
so a lot of times , she and i will travel to writers conferences together . 
that 's neat . 
so . 
we 've never had anything like that . 
so that gives us special time together too . 
and she 's on the yearbook staff and things like that 
so i can help her with that 
and she gives me ideas for my writing too 
obviously things are different for me and my children than when i was growing up . 
i grew up on a farm in iowa , 
and the whole family was around the whole time . 
and then what my father did was , obvious to me 
and i helped out with it . 
but although i have brought my boys to see where i work , it 's not that easy , 
and it 's certainly not at all common , 
and they just do n't really have that same idea , 
it 's a whole different kind of thing there then , 
my husband has taken us to work with him , 
and we still do n't know what he does . 
so , we just say he travels a lot . 
so , that kind of covers it . 
that makes it hard though in terms of family time with him . 
i 've been lucky in that respect that i do n't travel too much . 
he 's been on temporary duties where he 's been gone nine months . 
so those are the real killers . 
he 's gone three weeks right now 
and that 's mild compare to the big ones , 
so i just do the carpooling and handle whatever needs to be done . 
and something major , always needs to be done . 
so you just have to handle it until he gets home . 
and hopefully he wo n't have too many surprises when he gets home . 
discussion on child care . 
do you have any children ? 
they 're all grown up . 
i work in a day-care center 
you know all about it then . 
i enjoy it a lot . 
it 's been quite a few years . 
i have grandchildren but have n't really been into selecting child care for them , 
and it 's been quite a few years since i 've had to think about that . 
do they go to a day-care center 
my daughter that has three stays home with her children , 
that 's nice . 
and one of my daughters has one 
but an aunt keeps the baby . 
that 's nice . 
but i would not really know how to go about selecting one nowadays , 
but i would imagine it 's very hard . 
i think so . 
i think it 's hard to find a good day care . 
i have worked at some other ones that were not very good in my opinion . 
but this one that i 'm in now is very good . 
and one of the key things is how many adults are there in ratio to the children . 
and in pennsylvania for babies there has to be a one to four ratio at the most . 
no more than four babies per care giver . 
but we keep it down to two to one . 
that 's good . 
that makes it a little easier to deal with . 
i 've always thought it would be really tough . 
what if you had a fire or something with babies ? 
i know . 
you 'd have to be able to get them all out . 
what we do is we have these cribs in the back room where they sleep that are low to the ground 
and they 're reenforced real strong 
and they 'll sit four babies . 
we would just lie them in there 
and they roll real well and maneuver . 
that will get them out . 
i had n't thought about that . 
but i was thinking , if they had very many babies , they could n't possibly get them all out . 
but you could put them in one of these cribs and then roll the crib out i guess . 
that 's neat . 
that 's certainly something we hope never happens . 
do most of your day-care workers really care about the children , 
or is it just a job for them ? 
most really care , in this center , really care . 
most everyone has a college degree in early childhood education . 
and really there 's only like eight children per room 
and then there 's mostly three care givers in each room . 
and that enables them to spend more time with the children . 
sometimes i feel like all i 'm doing is changing diapers , giving bottles , and putting babies down for a nap . 
so , it 's nice to be able to play with them and really get to know them . 
it 's easy to get attached to them too . 
how old are the children go with this center where you work ? 
in my room they go from eight weeks to nine months . 
and throughout the center it goes up to age twelve . 
i have the real , real young ones in my room . 
you 've got the little bitty ones . 
those are , probably the best group to have . 
they 're wonderful . 
they do n't complain too much . 
and they 're fun . 
they are a lot of fun . 
babies are fun , 
and they 're not quite big enough to be getting into everything yet , 
not quite . 
when they start to crawl they try to climb up on things 
you have to be real careful everything is baby proof . 
all the doors have latches and stuff so they ca n't get into anything 
but they try . 
do you think there 's very many really good day-care centers around your area ? 
but 
in my area 
because i live in a college town in penn state university 
there is a lot of college educated people and stuff that are in the centers that really seem to have an idea of what 's going on . 
and in general though i 've been really disappointed with a lot of other centers i 've worked at , and all 
it 's not my choice for when i have children 
but some people do n't have a choice . 
sometimes it 's a have to . 
i wish i could find someplace i really felt good about . 
you know ? 
most of them do n't really feel that it 's a great place to leave their kids . 
that is sad . 
and it 's really bad . 
one of the girls she was leaving hers at where she felt like was a really good place , 
and then they called her one afternoon and said , we thought we 'd better call and tell you before you got over here . 
lacy fell asleep on the bus after our field trip today , 
and we just now found her . 
what ? 
they had left her on the bus closed up all afternoon . 
and so immediately she says , i ca n't have any confidence in them anymore , 
if they 'll take a group of kids to the zoo or somewhere and then come back and not even count them and realize they 're one short . 
but one of the teachers happened to walk by and see her pounding on the window trying to get out of the bus . 
and this was four hours later . 
that poor child . 
what do you do ? 
that 's awful . 
so she has switched to a different center now 
i usually come back more tired after my vacation , then i do before i take it . 
i need to definitely take a vacation where all i do is rest . 
and i guess to do that i 'd probably have to take it at home . 
but the vacation spots that i like to go to are places like the bahamas and florida . 
i enjoy the beach . 
after our last summer 's vacation i am antibeach . 
antibeach . 
we went to cape hatteras . 
we were out visiting one of our kids in maryland , 
and we went down to cape hatteras for a few days . 
and the waves were huge . 
i 've never quite seen waves like this one 
and i was standing in water not more than , barely above my ankles 
all of a sudden you 're in sand above your ankles . 
and i was standing there talking to my daughter 
and this really big wave came and totally threw me , 
and one foot did not come out of the sand , 
and it tore the ligaments in my knee . 
so i 'm never going to another beach again , ever . 
you might be like i am . 
i enjoy going to the beach and to beach areas , 
but i really do n't like to get in the ocean . 
i prefer a swimming pool . 
i love to go and play around . 
at least i always did although actually , i like the mountains . 
i do n't really like hot weather 
that 's my biggest gripe about living here . 
and i basically , do n't want to go to a hot place on vacation . 
i can understand that . 
my dream vacation is alaska . 
this is just someplace i 've always wanted to go 
that would be nice . 
and someday we can afford to just take a humdinger of a vacation up there . 
i know i 've taken several vacations to colorado , 
and i used to live in colorado sometime ago for a couple of years , 
and i really enjoyed that . 
i 'd like that . 
i have n't been to yellowstone for a long , long time 
and we 've been talking about going there next summer . 
i do n't know 
i 've never been up to the yellowstone area . 
it 's been a long time . 
but it seems when your family is different places , a lot of trips involved going to visit . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
you got that . 
we usually go up to wisconsin at least once a year because this is where my husband and i are both from . 
and my mother and his mother live up there feeling lost and alone because we moved down here . 
one of our kids lives out on the east coast 
and so we have to go to those . 
you have a lot of vacation areas you can go to then . 
i know 
but i 'm tired of them . 
i want to go someplace different up there . 
that 's right . 
my idea of the ideal vacation would be to begin with money be no object so just absolutely first class fly where i want to , rent a car if i want to and not worry if somebody says , let 's take this little side trip and not have to sit there and figure out again we fit that in there or not . 
and that 's what i would like to do . 
i have no interest , for example , in taking a cruise . 
to me why somebody would want to ride around on a boat for a few days is mind boggling . 
i feel like it would be confining . 
i would much rather get on a plane and get there and then enjoy myself . 
that does absolutely nothing for me . 
but i do n't know 
i can say that i think my favorite spots are still to go where there 's mountains and a lot of trees and wildlife to view 
and , i like that kind of stuff . 
i could just sit there all day and look at the scenery . 
i agree . 
i can do that too , 
and i think if i had the money , i would probably go to europe every year . 
because i think that they have it all over there in , two miles . 
there 's mountains 
and there 's beaches 
and it 's all right there . 
i guess i 've never really thought about it that way . 
we have a daughter who 's almost thirteen 
but she 's a very picky eater 
and our standard excuse for not going someplace like that is holly would starve to death if we took her into the country 
i would like to go to africa . 
real excited when i heard this . 
so far i 've been trying to call all day because i keep getting these subjects like capital punishment 
so football , i love this . 
this is great . 
we 're from colorado 
so we 're bronco fans . 
and we just moved here two years ago 
and they went to the superbowl when we first moved here 
and they lost again . 
that was pretty pitiful , 
but they seem to be doing pretty good this year . 
i was from illinois originally , 
and i grew up a bear fan . 
and then we moved here 
even when we knew we were being transferred here we became cowboy fans . 
and we had some wonderful , wonderful years there under roger staubach . 
and we kind of got spoiled . 
we expected it to continue forever . 
i think they 're doing pretty well this year though . 
have they just lost one game this year ? 
i think two . 
two . 
i know they lost to washington and philadelphia . 
but they 're not doing bad . 
people are pretty surprised that they beat the giants . 
and was n't that fun . 
i went to the balloon festival in plano and carried my little portable radio with me , 
and i must say i attracted a lot of attention . 
i bet . 
people running up saying , what 's the score , what 's the score ? 
i bet all the men that got direct down there were just right on it . 
that 's right 
and that 's exactly what they said , 
my wife dragged me away from the television . 
i had forgotten 
or i probably would n't have been there . 
i 'm a big football fan . 
my father was a football fan my whole life 
and he used to have the football pool at the office and all this stuff 
and i just hated it . 
and i think i was just mad because he spent so much time watching football on sundays . 
so when i met my husband , he was watching football 
and i figured out that i could n't see him all weekend . 
i could n't see him until tuesday because monday night football , if i did n't , like football . 
that 's exactly where both of the wives came from i think . 
it 's easier to join them than fight them . 
and if you want to see them , you might just as well enjoy football . 
and i used to tease my husband sometimes and say , did you bet the house or something this week to get so excited about , these games . 
i do . 
i love it . 
i just think it 's such a fun sport . 
and i 'm just hoping that the broncos can get back on their feet . 
we 're not convinced that we 're going to be cowboy fans yet . 
it takes a little brainwashing first . 
i guess we 'll first have to get used to the idea that we 're staying here . 
that 's even harder . 
are you transit usually ? 
do you stay not in one place too long ? 
this is only the second place we 've lived . 
we 've only been married for five and a half years . 
and we have two small children , 
and he just got transferred here to e-systems , 
it will take you a little while 
but you 'll probably always have a soft spot in your heart though for denver . 
i tell you this , 
the weather here 
and there 's no mountains or anything , 
and when you go to a football game in colorado there 's snow 
and it 's an adventure . 
and here you 've just got to drive down to the stadium 
i know . 
if they close it in we 'll have the best of both worlds then as they 're talking about doing . 
but dan reeves is a pretty neat guy anyway . 
he 's from here . 
that 's right 
so . 
he was one of our boys . 
that 's what i hear . 
so we never cheer against denver unless they 're playing the cowboys . 
which is rare . 
which is good . 
it 's funny 
in colorado when the broncos went to the superbowl three times in the last five or six years . they have these songs on the radio . 
they take popular songs and change them to fit the broncos and stuff . 
i was just thinking about one the other day . 
if i saw a picture of john elway in the cafeteria at school 
but they did the johnny angel . 
they did johnny elway to that . 
johnny elway . 
and i was trying to get my son to sing that . 
my husband was just having a fit 
do n't have him sing that song . 
but , they do a lot of fun things . 
i think football is kind of a sport that i think , it 's hard not to like it . 
there is so much about it to like . 
it 's exciting . 
it 's so exciting . 
and when the cowboys won the superbowl here , of course , they put together some real cute songs , 
and we all ran out and bought the records , 
and now we feel like they 're kind of a collector 's item . 
i wish i would have bought the tape when i was in colorado . 
because i think about that a lot . 
but when i first moved here they did this . 
this interstate seventy-five song . or whatever it was about central expressway and getting it done in nineteen ninety-five and everything . 
that was kind of a funny song 
it seems to me like they really love their cowboys here . 
even when they were losing pitifully people still support them . 
we drive by some houses everyday that have big signs , 
do you have an opinion on credit cards ? 
i do . 
you do ? 
what do you think about them ? 
i think they get a lot of people in trouble . 
i have one right now 
and i just got it about six months ago 
and i find that it makes it a lot easier to get things that you generally would n't get . 
you charge this for twenty , charge that for twenty , charge this for twenty , 
and pretty soon you owe a hundred dollars 
and you do n't stop to think about it . 
i got in trouble when i was in the service quite a few years ago ten to fifteen thousand dollars in trouble . 
so i eventually got it all paid . 
now i carry one . 
i have a gas card and a visa card . 
and i never use them unless i need to . 
that 's good . 
i made a rule with myself when i got one that if i could n't pay it in full every month that i 'd have to rip it up , 
that 's a good idea . 
stops all them interest rates , 
and interest rates are n't none too shallow these days anyway . 
but i know a lot of people that get in trouble with them 
i 'm in lubbock 
and we have a bunch of college kids around here going to tech , 
and they seem to get in trouble with them a lot . 
i have a couple friends too that have about three of them maxed out . 
and they ca n't do anything but work to try to pay them off . 
and one of my friends hers is up to nine hundred dollars 
and she only earns two hundred dollars a month because she 's going to school . 
something like that . 
so all she 's paying is interest on hers every month . 
it just seems crazy to me 
my wife got in trouble one time with hers . 
she was making forty-five dollars a month i think . 
and fifteen dollars of it was because she was over the limit 
and fifteen dollars of it was interest 
so she was only paying in it fifteen dollars a month . 
and that was before we got married , 
we sat down and talked about it and discussed it 
and it 's come out pretty good . 
now we have a eighteen year old that 's fixing to get out of high school and go to college . 
that 's the first thing he wanted . 
was a visa card ? 
so we kind of discussed that a little bit and shot that idea down right quick . 
i bet . 
i do n't know . 
i 'm about sick of mine right now . 
but i think they 're too readily accessible 
and there 's too many companies out there that are willing to give them to you and get you trapped . 
you can always file bankruptcy to get out of it , 
but that 's a lot of pain and hassle . 
in the olden days when my parents were growing up and we could n't afford everything , we did n't have such things as credit cards . 
we just waited until time come around that we could afford it . 
and we had all the necessities , 
and i very seldom use a credit card on necessities . 
i always use it for something i want not something i need . 
my parents are really good about not using credit cards . 
they are against it . 
i do n't think they like the fact that i have one either . 
i think if cards were as stringent as a home mortgage loan or something like that where you have to be able to prove that you can afford this and the rest of your bills , we probably would n't have the problems we have . 
of course , we would n't have the retail market we have either 
so i guess they trade one for the other . 
i disagree with it , 
but they still trade one for the other . 
that 's good . 
you sound pretty young , 
i 'm twenty right now . 
are you ? 
so , just going to school and working 
last weekend was homecoming 
and i needed a pair of shoes 
so i just went out and bought them on my credit card . 
i did n't really have the money to do it 
it 's pretty easy . 
it sure is . 
so do you just have two kids 
we have a eighteen year old , seventeen year old , and a seven year old . 
i 'm from plano , texas . 
are you ? 
but right now i 'm out in provo , utah going to b y u 
you 're a mormon then ? 
but , this is a extra long one . 
what 's that ? 
they 're giving us a lot of time . 
they must not have too much traffic on saturdays . 
have you done a lot of this ? 
fifteen or twenty i guess . 
do you do it every day ? 
i try to every day . 
i get calls at work , 
i get calls at home , 
i have a real good method of starting to get the budget balancing 
and then that 's get rid of the half of the government payroll . 
i think that would probably be very possible , 
and we really would n't feel it in our services . 
i do n't know if you 've ever been to washington d c . 
i have . 
you 've seen that which was on there and the offices 
and in light of these hearings we 've all been sitting through the last two weeks , we have very definitely decided that every department there is just overstaffed . 
they really do n't have enough to keep them busy to keep their noses in their own business of what they 're doing . 
and the other thing is besides that i think two things that very definitely need looking at , one is foreign aid . 
i have a real problem with all the foreign aid that is going to the countries that really have no use for us . 
i find that a total waste and part of the defense budget . 
again being just a voter and a taxpayer working through our congressman , i do n't think there 's too much that i 'm going to be able to do about it , 
but i believe in taking an active part in politics , 
one thing that really bothers me beyond cutting what they spend is that just really aggravates me when the big businesses do not end up paying taxes 
and the regular normal taxpayers are paying such a large proportion of our personal income 
and then the corporate industries just do n't seem to not pay proportionally . 
i think that that would help a lot . 
i guess in a way it would trickle down to us in the prices of things , 
but i do n't know . 
it 's just hard to take and see so much of our paycheck go out and then realize that they have all the loopholes that they can use . 
and seems like some rather large chunks of money could come from that direction . 
and then the taft-rudman act is supposed to help that . 
the biggest part is they have no accountability for what they 're doing . 
this nonsense that 's coming through now about lowering payments on social security and a few other things that bush has in mind in order to boost the economy because people have more money it 's ridiculous . 
if they do n't have that money now , bringing in less is not going to help the problem as far as the government . 
not going to help . 
it 's never helped my personal situation . 
i ca n't say it would help with theirs either . 
and thank god we do n't operate our budget , the way they operate theirs 
or we 'd all be in dire trouble . 
i do n't know what we 're going to be able to do about it 
but i guess it 's sitting around so long that it 's sort of like our mortgages . 
i do n't ever expect to pay mine off before i die 
so why should the government . 
that 's the way they 're thinking these days anyway . 
it seems to be . 
it really does bother me when i think about leaving our children with this sort of a national problem that we ca n't seem to find an answer to it , 
i do n't know . 
i do n't think it ever will really . 
maybe if they ever get to the point 
the biggest outlaid expense has always been either wars or defense . 
if they were to take half of what they spend on that and put it on some economic intergovernmental or inter united states like programs that one really might . 
i believe in paying my share , 
and i do n't mind paying for some of these fringe benefits that people are entitled to . 
but i just sometimes feel like i 'm being used . 
but again i do n't think we 'll be able to do anything about it , 
that 's quite possible . 
i guess we have to keep plugging away a little bit 
or it will just totally get even more out of control 
but i do n't know . 
bite the bullet . 
it sounds like you have a baby there . 
i do . 
that 's a shame . 
she 's not the one going to washington ? 
i do n't think i could part with her . 
geri . 
we 've probably been on long enough . 
they did n't cut us off , 
but i think that will probably do it 
so it was nice talking to you . 
we 're talking about capital punishment . 
how do you feel about that lenore ? 
i am very much for capital punishment . 
wonderful . 
i am too , one hundred percent . 
my dad retired from the federal prison of bureaus . 
and i 've been raised around prisons all my life . 
all your life . 
and i believe if you do n't have a punishment befitting the crime , there 's not any deterrent . 
there 's no deterrent . 
that 's right . 
there 's just no deterrent . 
that 's right . 
and so many of those kind of people , they have a better life in prison than they have on the street anyway 
so unless they really make it rough on them going to prison for a little while is not much of a deterrent i do n't think . 
especially not a federal prison . 
i do n't know what oklahoma 's laws are 
i do n't know 
it 's not the judge 's fault i do n't think . 
it 's just the way the law is down here . 
our prisons are so crowded that they can commit some pretty serious crimes and be set free within a year to two . 
it was over crowded 
and the federal came in and said , you have either got to build more prisons or let people go . 
that 's what ours did , 
same thing . 
and finally our governor at the time who is not in office now came in and said , where we draw the line is no sex offenders will be let loose . under early bail or early get out . 
the death penalty is not given often . 
it 's not here either really . 
maybe it should be given sparingly , 
but i do believe it should be befitting the crime . 
i do too 
but the way the courts are set up they 've got so many chances for appeal , 
but i think it needs to be expedited . 
if they 've been convicted and given an appeal and they 're still convicted of a crime that 's deserving of a lethal injection , let 's do it and not waste so many years to do it . 
of course they 're entitled to a speedy trial . 
that 's right . 
but then they 're also entitled to drag it through the courts for years and years and years on appeals . 
so somehow it does n't really balance out too much . 
that 's right . 
somehow it just does n't , 
it works 
and then again it takes too long for it to work . 
the prisoner himself can come to the point that , i 'm tired . 
i just want out . 
i 'm tired of fighting it . 
then the system just keeps on . 
and at that point i really think there needs to be maybe a shorter appeal process . 
i do too . 
and i do n't see why it could n't be shortened considerably . 
part of that is the overcrowding of the court system . 
that 's true . 
it is overcrowded because there 's so much problem with the people on drugs 
with the drugs they 're robbing and killing 
and that 's why it 's filled the prisons up so much i think . 
it does n't help them any at all 
it does n't . 
i do n't believe criminal is in a court by itself . 
and the whole judicial system is backed up with a lot of junk that should n't be in there . 
that 's true . 
with all these lawsuits and people suing people over ridiculous things 
we 've gotten into a very litigious type of life . 
have n't we though . 
we really have . 
but i 'm glad to hear that you agree with me on the capital punishment . 
i 'm very muchly for it . 
always have been , 
always will be . 
i just feel like their crime and punishment 
and if you do n't have the punishment , you double your crime . 
and that is just personal feeling . 
it 's not going on facts . 
i think the facts would probably back it up 
it could be supportive . 
it 's supported with facts though . 
what ? 
it could very easily be supported with facts . 
and that 's an idea that 's been kicked around for a long time . 
i do n't know that it 's ever been seriously considered as far as close to passing any legislation or anything like that . 
i think so . 
everybody has to do something . 
or maybe theirs is , in fact , one year of military service for everyone . 
i believe that 's right . 
and i do n't know that that 's really what we 're talking about . 
i think of that . 
military service is not that much 
but , the , military used to do it 
and then country would benefit from one year from everybody and even out the , requirement . 
for kids in high school , it could be in the summertime . 
that 's a thought . 
it could even be done while they 're doing another job , while they 're doing a job to make money . 
i think the family would have to be involved in it . 
i think the basic message is that giving is better than receiving . 
and that 's not the kind of society we have right now . 
i 'm afraid you 're right there . 
there 's lots and lots of volunteer programs 
but at least it 's my opinion that most of those involve adults . adults who have the time to give and , the desire to give . 
younger people feel like it 's not open to them , 
i do n't know . 
but it should be if it 's not . 
i suspect that that 's not the thing . that they do n't feel it 's open to them 
it is kind of an introspective time of life . 
but some high schools have actually started a visitation program to less advantaged areas . 
and they promote service on the part of the kids to , some of those people . 
so at least that 's a step in the right direction i guess . 
i think you 're right that that 's not the way that the society these days is going , 
i do volunteer work for the american lung association . 
and i have gone to work for american heart and for the leukemia society . 
and there 's no question that doing that kind of service you get a lot more out of it than the people involved . 
it 's really a gift to yourself 
and i think that 's a really important lesson to learn . 
and maybe that 's why we have so many people in society who are not really happy . 
that could be . 
because if you concentrate all of your energies and efforts on yourself , you 're just kind of down the tube . 
it really is better to give then to receive . 
i agree with that , 
and i do n't know what has set it off or what 
so , what do you think about it ? 
i found it interesting that they started off with a problems of immigration in america and then went back and said , if there is a problem , what should we do about it ? 
i guess that 's so . 
do you feel there 's a problem with immigration in america ? 
i think there 's some problems , 
but they 're not really big ones . 
i think that in general the whole immigration policy is n't quite as open as it should be . that it 's really pretty hard for people from other countries to get in here even if they 're educated and will be a good asset to america . 
it 's often hard for them to get in and get on the track towards citizenship unless they marry a citizen or something like that . 
that 's interesting . 
i was wondering what your response would be . 
i 'm a first generation american . 
so i 'm , from immigrant parents . or an immigrant mother anyway . 
where did you come from ? 
so where did your parents come from ? 
poland . 
and that was prior to world war two . 
but it 's interesting that with the topic i think i agree with you . 
there needs to be more of an open policy . 
and we have to remember the chinese came here and were our labor for the transatlantic railroad 
and , our irish came and built the towns and , did labor . 
but what do you think , 
are you from texas 
i 'm from pennsylvania . 
pennsylvania . 
that will be interesting . 
because we have just , had a naturalization act where the mexicans that were residents in texas have become citizens now . 
what do you think about that ? 
i think that 's all right . 
at least on the surface it sounds like a good thing . 
do you have an opinion about it ? 
i agree with it wholeheartedly . 
the only thing is i 've got to share with you , my background is from new jersey . 
so , when you were giving your answer i was thinking , is this a texan i 'm talking to ? . 
because texan philosophy is a little different . 
a lot of the experience that i have with this problem has to do with my brother-in-law who 's chinese and immigrated from china . 
and he got a green card and is in good standing in america and china , 
but only because he was always nice to the chinese government , and all that , 
and he was always on pretty good terms with them . 
my sister just had a baby 
and they 're trying to get permission for his mother to come to america to help care for the kid and that sort of thing . 
and it 's turned out to be sort of a horrible problem . 
it 's just very difficult to get a woman who does n't have a lot of assets or whatever out of china even temporarily to visit here . 
then you have the experience on immigration . 
that is interesting . 
i wonder even with those that were involved with tienamen 's square . 
did we really protect them ? 
and i think that 's pretty crazy , because those students who were in america when that was happening are almost certainly going to be in trouble if they go back , 
and aside for that , they 're the best and brightest of china 
so it 's certainly in our best selfish interest to keep them here if we can . 
that is true . 
that is true . 
what do you think about , 
we have in texas a large vietnamese population that has been brought in . 
what do you think about that ? 
and these are not the brightest . 
these are refujees , you mean ? 
we 're talking boat people . 
we have a lot of boat people in texas . 
i do n't have any problem with that . 
you 're a true liberal heart-to-heart . 
good for you . 
i guess so . 
i was ready for a fight on this one . 
interesting , 
when my daughter was in high school , one of the custodians was vietnamese 
and with his limited english they found out that he was a medical doctor , 
so what was the last car repair you had ? 
just recently i was kind of laughing when i heard the switchboard talking about the question because i had to have my radiator flushed 
and it was getting rusty . 
and the thing that they forgot to do was to also look at the hose , 
and i had gone about two days with my new radiator flushed 
and the hose burst . 
so i was stranded out on the highway . 
did you crack the block or what ? 
i did n't do that 
but there seemed to be enough antifreeze left to do that 
but it cost me all kind of money to have that repaired after they said they had repaired it . 
so that was a horrible experience just recently . 
i see . 
you got lucky you did n't ruin the whole engine though . 
that can be pretty serious . 
i know . 
i know . 
what about you ? 
i guess it 's been awhile for me . 
it 's been about a year . 
i had the water pump break on my car . 
i was traveling , 
i was going on my way home from thanksgiving 
and it broke in the middle of nowhere . 
so , i had to get it towed and then fixed 
big pain . 
i know . 
i know . 
especially when you 're out on the highway . 
that 's where i was . 
luckily someone came by and gave me a ride . 
living in dallas we 've got bumper to bumper eight lanes of traffic 
and that was horrible . 
your car is fuming and everything . 
it 's already a hundred degrees 
you do n't need that too . 
but my car is getting old . 
it 's about six years old now , 
so is mine . 
so i got it right out of college 
and so it 's starting to show the wear and tear now . 
i 'm hoping mine gets me through . 
i got until may until i 'm out . 
so when i cross that one i 'll be okay . 
that was my graduation present to myself , 
that 's nice . 
i know 
but it 's really starting to wear 
so i 've been thinking , especially now is a good time to buy a car . 
because i do n't know if i want to pay all these repairs now to start getting it fixed when it 's starting to breakdown . 
i do n't want to do too much on mine because it will be worth more than the car is 
and it 's not worth it . 
that 's true . 
i agree with you there . 
so i do n't know , 
because i need to have it tuned up and replace some of the belts . 
the tires need to be replaced 
and so i was thinking just a lot of money 
might as well buy me a new car for that . 
i got new tires last winter too 
so i 'm that 's the last major purchase for this thing . 
it 's not worth it . 
you have to , in pennsylvania , 
you have to really have your car winterized and stuff , 
we get some killer winters up here in the mountains . 
lot of snow and a lot of cold . 
especially do n't you have a lot of salt on the ground ? 
at times there 's a lot of it . 
you got to clean out the underneath of your car all the time when you get a chance . 
rust and the body too , 
i have n't had a big problem with that though . 
so i 've been pretty lucky there . 
that 's usually pretty good . 
you just rinse it off after the winter is over 
and go like that 
i usually like to do most repairs on my own though . 
do you ? 
just because that way i know what 's wrong with my car and what it needs and what it really does n't . 
plus if something goes wrong , i know who to blame . 
i think i 'm getting too old for all that . 
i had four brothers 
and they used to drag me out underneath the car , and stuff 
so i can do all that stuff 
but i think i 'd much prefer to pay the twenty-two ninety-five to go have it done now 
so i can get my hands dirty . 
so . 
i 'm just getting to that age i guess . 
your time becomes very precious 
so working on the car is just not one of those things i want to spend my time on anymore . 
more fun things to do . 
so 
i just need one , 
i had two cars there for a while 
so i would n't have to worry about which car was going to run . 
that 's nice . 
and 
but it became a hassle trying to keep up and maintain both of them . 
and 
one is bad enough . 
one was bad enough . 
but i think i got rid of the wrong one . 
i need a lot of repairs done on this one 
so 
that was something else . 
are our five minutes up ? . 
i was just wondering that . 
i did n't either . 
this must be a hard category . 
i guess . 
unless you 're big do-it-yourselfer . to fix up your own cars and things like that . 
but i guess they were talking about experiences . 
my parents live in ohio 
so i do know something about the really cold weather . 
and i 've always lived down here in the south , 
and i took my car up there to their house 
and i guess i had a crack in the block , 
let 's see . 
so what gets you ? 
the thing i think that annoys me the most is , i have young children , a baby in the house 
and inevitably as soon as they 're asleep , someone calls on the phone trying to sell me something . 
and i think that , that is probably the most aggravating . 
it invades my time . 
i 'm the one that pays for the phone . 
if i want to buy something , i 'll take the initiative and go find it . 
and that just really does aggravate me . 
what do you think ? 
that 's exactly the kind of thing i would have said . 
although in my case it 's my wife and i both work , 
we come home 
and just as we 're preparing dinner or eating dinner the phone rings 
and it 's one solicitation call after another 
your time is valuable , 
it 's like you say , very annoying 
and why do we let this happen . 
that 's interesting . 
the market seems to just be growing , too . 
i guess enough people are not speaking out . 
i 'm not speaking out , 
that 's for sure . 
i just get aggravated about it . 
if you could legislate something , what would you legislate ? 
i really do n't know . 
i 'm not into heavy government legislating of a lot of different areas , 
but , i do n't know . 
i do particularly find it annoying . 
i 'm really not sure . 
it seems to me that we should have the ability to designate with the phone company that we do n't want to receive calls like that . 
and the people making these calls would be obliged to compare their lists that they 're going to call against this list of people who do n't want to be called . 
identify themselves , 
that would be an interesting way , 
and , that way , those who want it can have it 
and those who do n't want it , do n't have to have it . 
sort of like an unlisted number where you have n't gone to the trouble of enlisting yourself . 
except even unlisted numbers are n't safe now because they have these things just sort of dial through all the numbers . automatically 
is that right ? 
that 's interesting . 
and they just get everybody . 
i do wish that it would stop on my end because it seems to happen at the worst possible moments . 
and i guess the next one is door-to-door solicitors . 
i do n't mind the children when they 're selling things for school . 
i have kids 
and that 's just kind of part of it 
but when it 's adults selling a variety of things and especially when men arrive at about ten o'clock in the morning it makes you not feel particularly safe 
and , it 's annoying as well . 
and these people may in fact be just looking to find an unoccupied house to rob . 
you really do n't know , 
so i find myself being a bit abrupt and a little bit ruder than i might normally be 
but , i do feel like it 's an invasion of my space . 
what about these telephone callers who want you to basically help them fill out a questionnaire . 
i 've never quite understood the purpose of that . 
i think these people were hired from different sources . 
and so , therefore , there 's no one answer . 
but , 
basically it 's a market survey 
just a survey . 
there have been a couple of times when whatever the subject was caught my interest and i went along with it 
and then there have been several times when i just said , i just really do n't have the time to deal with it at that moment . 
but i do n't get too many of those . 
i 've had just a few . 
generally someone 's trying to sell me something 
and sometimes this is just the lead in to a sales pitch too . 
other times it 's wasting your time to collect the data they want for their marketing purpose . 
for which , if they would just pay me enough money i would be willing to consider . 
that 's right . 
but a dollar is n't it , , 
and i also sort of worry that sometimes people giveaway personal information . 
somebody is asking me my opinion on all of these things , 
and so i start answering 
and then you go down a path 
and you do n't know where it 's going to end . 
in fact , you do n't even know the totality of what you 've revealed 
and this is most likely not going to be used against you , 
that 's true . 
but it could 
and that seems to be something that should really be outlawed . because it 's subject to abuse 
you just never know , i guess . 
i ca n't really see that , 
i think if nothing else , they ought to spend money for a postage stamp 
now we 're ready . 
do you have a personal computer ? 
we have one . 
you do , in your home ? 
ma'am . 
i do not have one in my home . 
i use one all day at work , 
but i do n't have one at home . 
do you find you use it a lot ? 
i do n't use it as much as my children and my husband do . 
actually my husband and i are taking a class at our local junior college called micro computers one o one 
and we 're just touching on data base , spreadsheets and word processing and just kind of , different kinds of storage 
and we 're just kind of touching on a basic computer . 
what kind do you have ? 
we have an i b m compatible . 
it 's a gateway brand that we bought mainly for our children to have educational programs . 
that sounds interesting . 
what kind of a computer do you use at work ? 
i have a p s one i b m type . 
and i use it all day at work 
and i put all my personal stuff on it at work . 
so i really have n't had a need for one at home 
but probably if i did n't have access to one all the time at work , i 'd want one at home . 
i worked on my airline apollo focal point computer for about four years . which was different . 
what is that 
tracking the flights and things ? 
how long are we supposed to talk on this ? 
they tell us when we 're through . 
this is my very first time . 
they come in and tell us . 
have you just started doing this ? 
they 'll come in and tell us that the switchboard is full now and it 's time for you to wind up in the next thirty seconds or something like that . 
but , i 'm going to ignore that . 
that 's a call on my other line , 
so i 'm just going to ignore it . 
i have that , too . 
it 's kind of a hassle when you have this , 
where do you work ? 
i work at texas instruments . 
you do ? 
of course . 
i sure do . 
of course . 
that 's , why you 're making these calls ? 
i 'm doing this at home . 
i 'm already home for the day . 
i see . 
this is a pretty good deal . 
i ca n't do it at work . 
i work in the legal department 
so i 'm pretty busy . 
but i use my p c there mostly for creating legal documents . 
we use word perfect , lotus . 
you do know lotus ? 
that 's great . 
that 's something we want to learn . 
i love lotus . 
i think that 's about my favorite . 
i 've heard that people that finally learn how to use it really like it . 
that 's great . 
it really is , 
and i know there 's still a hundred things i do n't know how to do on it . 
but you learn something every time you use it . 
i have a question . 
on this survey or whatever i volunteered for . 
do i start calling in myself 
or do i wait for people to call me ? 
did they give you a number to call ? 
and eight hundred number . 
you can start calling in whenever it 's convenient for you 
but you can only make one call a day . 
only one a day . 
if you 've talked to someone , like you 're talking to me now and i place the call , this counts as your call . 
so you can not make a call now until tomorrow . 
i see . 
so then , do you get the five bucks 
or do i ? 
we both do . 
we both do . 
did n't they ask you for your i d number when you answered ? 
i had to put that in . 
so you both do . 
that 's a pretty good deal . 
from what i understand . 
why are we doing this ? 
it 's for research . 
actually , i 'm doing this for a friend of mine . 
it 's a research type project on voice activated electronics . 
it 's almost like a voice command computer type thing . 
they call it the speech lab that is setting this thing up . 
they 're doing research for a lot of big companies from what i understand on this . 
i do n't know everything about it 
that 's wonderful . 
but they try to get as many people as they possibly can to contribute to this 
and that way they can check voice patterns . 
i see , 
different kinds of voices and things . 
and get the computer where it recognizes voices . 
that 's why it 's interesting because i 'm going to say you have an accent . 
and i think that i do n't . 
to you 
i was born and raised in texas . have lived here forever 
so i probably do . 
and you 're in what city ? 
i 'm in richardson . 
it 's right outside of dallas . 
one of my sisters lives in plano . 
richardson 's right between dallas and plano . 
how about that . 
i probably went through richardson , then . 
you probably did . 
and then i have a sister that lives in austin . 
what are you doing way in washington ? 
we 're actually all from nebraska . 
they just recently moved there . 
my brother-in-law is director of admissions at the university of texas in dallas . 
that 's interesting . 
and then my sister works at the air force base . 
so i imagine they use personal computers . 
actually 
they both have personal computers . 
do they do their correspondence on it ? 
i think they just send christmas letters on it . 
mostly my one sister uses hers for her children children 's games . 
so , we started recording already ? 
i guess , 
i do n't know . 
it 's the first time i 've made a phone call on it . 
so you pressed one ? 
so , i guess we 're supposed to start talking . 
what kind of books do you read ? 
i read a lot of steven king , dean r koontz some danielle steel . 
my aunt got me hooked on those . 
so it 's mostly all novels ? 
they 're all novels . 
i 'll read some classic , too . 
like what ? 
like the graduate by steinbeck . 
i like that . 
i like steinbeck a lot . 
a rose family by faulkner . that 's one of my favorites . 
i have never read a lot of faulkner . 
and this is more of a play or something that it was from , that i saw 
and i read the book from that . 
and , by the way , my name 's bill . 
i 'm from north carolina . 
i 'm doug , 
i 'm from pennsylvania . 
let 's see . 
what kind of books do you like to read ? 
a bunch of stuff fair number of novels , but mostly shorter ones . 
and i do n't really like the six hundred page long stephen king novels and all that . 
i really have to be in the mood . 
i read one maybe once a year . 
i like , richard broudigan a lot . 
i 've never read anything by him . 
he 's dead now , 
but he was really a pretty amazing writer . 
he wrote books that were pretty short and pretty easy to read written at a third grade level or whatever . 
but they were still very heavy and philosophical , also very funny . 
he wrote trout fishing in america . 
and i read a lot of non fiction books , too . 
let 's see , 
i like to read a lot of non fiction history civil war era and that kind of thing . 
i found that real interesting . 
i 'm reading the lion and the wind right now . 
and that was on t v . 
what 's that ? 
it was during teddy roosevelt 's time . and about a american woman that got kidnapped in morocco . 
this is when they were having their revolution or whatever 
and teddy roosevelt sent troops over 
and really portrays him as a , kind of a crazy man . 
surprised me . 
i had no idea that he was like that . 
how crazy ? 
just one quote that he had was that he thought the america 's emblem was stupid because it was an eagle , 
the grizzly and stuff like that . 
i saw the movie 
and that 's what made me want to read the book . 
candice bergen was in the movie . 
i 'm a real big fan of hers 
i also read a lot of books about music because i 'm interested in that and fair number of stuff about science and also philosophy things . 
i like to read some of the philosophy stuff . 
let 's see , 
and even like reading some new age things , things that i do n't quite believe in , 
here on my shelf i have a book called journeys out of the body . 
it 's all about how to have out of body experiences and all that . 
i 'm fascinated by that . 
i 'm fascinated by that . 
and , even stuff about , not ghost stories , but real encounters with ghosts and supposedly haunted houses . 
i 'm kind of a doubting thomas 
and i like to read stuff like that . 
some of it really freaks me out . 
i read dianetics once 
i got past all the gibberish on it . 
did you like it ? 
it was okay . 
it took me a while to really get into it . 
it did n't help me that much . 
i see . 
but i think once you 're set in your ways , you 're set in your ways . 
one real interesting book i read recently was , when i was looking for a job , 
i read , how to get the job that you wanted 
and , it had real good tips 
you want to go ahead and tell me your favorite team , or who you think will be doing well this year . 
where i 'm from the atlantic coast conference is a very big conference 
and , course , we have duke university that was the national champions last year , 
so i 'm kind of hoping that they 'll repeat again this year . 
they have a lot of the same players back . 
, is this the n b a ? 
this is college basketball . 
this is college , 
we have carolina , and duke , and georgia tech , and n c state , teams that are normally ranked in the top twenty . 
so , hopefully we 'll have a good year . 
i do n't really follow the n b a very closely . 
and that 's probably all i saw . 
we have moved in the last couple years from utah to texas 
and there 's so many colleges and universities in texas , 
we have n't really followed them too much 
and none of them are our alma mater 
so , that seems to help . 
do you like professional basketball ? 
i follow it especially around the playoffs , 
so , course , i was real familiar with the utah jazz , 
and the mailman or karl malone was pretty big thing 
and , the lakers have always been amazing to watch . 
i did keep track a little bit of the mavericks . 
they 've not had any good seasons for a long time , and have a lot of problems with tarpley 
and , maybe now that that 's over they 'll come out of it 
that 's an up and coming team , though . 
i hope they do something . 
they need to 
or they 're not going to have any of the team left at all . 
that 's somebody you can get behind and , be patient . 
kind of like the cowboys , i guess . 
they seem to be kind of not having a very good few seasons . 
they , coming out of it this year . 
we 'll see if it 's held on . 
but , i think chicago will probably with the n b a again . 
the bulls ? 
they 'll probably be pretty good . 
course , the celtics are always really good , too , with their players . 
that 's true . 
be interesting to see how the olympics does this year with all the n b a players playing on the olympic team . 
that 's true , 
it will be interesting . 
it will certainly be different . 
i do n't know , how close i 'll follow them , though . 
and the season has n't started yet . 
i 'm usually more the end of the season person , 
and we need to talk about baseball 
my atlanta braves . 
the basketball season 's supposed to start in the next couple of weeks . 
it 's a long season . 
it is , 
i guess my mind went blank . 
it 's like last season was so long ago 
and i have n't really even started thinking about basketball yet 
but , this was n't a good subject , 
but , we 'll see how our predictions come true . 
it 's a little early . 
we definitely will . 
it 's good talking to you . 
good to talk to you . 
i guess we 're recorded . 
what , 
do you have any hobbies that you like to do ? 
cycling , computers backpacking , just about everything . 
i generically have millions of hobbies . 
that 's an interesting assortment . 
my husband is into cycling . 
in fact , he 's out there right now before it gets dark trying to get in his miles for the time . 
i 'm not quite that bad . 
i 'm just a weekend cyclist . 
do you do any handicraft type things , i think was the question . 
handicraft type things . 
just whittle away my life . 
nothing like that . 
i do some things . 
i like to decorate things 
and i do sweatshirts and t-shirts 
and i 've gotten to where i have started selling them at craft shows and things . 
that 's pretty good . 
and i have done fairly well at them . 
a few of my little hobby projects have totally bombed , 
but most , of them have worked out pretty good . 
my only craft work is kind of like computers and go off to the little computer club meetings , 
and , it 's kind of nice because i 've made money at it , too . 
considering i work for it a living , 
but i 've got a couple of articles published . 
it 's kind of neat . 
what does a computer club do . 
i did n't know there were such things . 
just all over the place . 
half the members are really expert 
and the other half are really not . 
and we kind of help out the people who are really not . 
you 're not into hacking or whatever . 
i think i 'm a hacker , 
but i 'm not the , dial around randomly trying to break into computers type hackers , 
that 's one of those sports i do n't go for . 
that 's kind of interesting hobby . 
you said you did cycling ? 
what was the other thing ? 
backpacking . 
backpacking . 
i belong to a boy scout troop . 
it beats paying united way . 
i just donate a whole bunch of my time to the boy scouts and have fun . 
we have done that . 
our two older boys were in boy scouts 
and my daughter was in girl scouts until just about a year ago 
so we 've done a fair amount of that in our spare time , also . 
that 's a great thing to do really . 
have you been backpacking anyplace exciting ? 
just last weekend went to davy crockett forest which is kind of out in east texas . 
let 's see 
what 's that state north of us , 
that state 
that one . 
that one . 
that one . 
by fort sill there ? 
to a old indian fort that 's out there . 
trying to think of the name of it . 
no memory . 
have you gone to fillmont with the boy scouts ? 
i missed out this last year . 
i was n't able to get the time off , 
but maybe next year . 
it 's a good possibility . 
i 've always thought that would be a real fun thing to do . 
when i was a kid we 'd do the equivalent thing in the high sierras . 
that was loads of fun . 
does your whole family like to do it , 
for a vacation you 'd go backpacking ? 
not quite because i 'm not a whole family . 
i 'm just me . 
and you volunteer for the boy scouts ? 
i rent my kids . 
sometimes , 
it 's better than owning on them and making payments on them , and things like that . 
sometimes i think that might not be a bad idea . 
you said you did it in the high sierras . 
do you ever just vacation someplace where you strictly backpack ? 
not recently because the boy scouts makes it so that i go once a month someplace . 
but there 's some stuff that i want to do with sierra club and go down to grand canyon or something like that . 
they have lots of tours where they get a bunch of people together and off you go . 
which seems kind of reasonable because that means you do n't have to take twenty thirteen year olds with you , which seems just a tad more relaxing . 
probably , 
probably . 
my other things that i like to do in my spare time , i like swimming . 
which is in now . 
i 've done that 
when i like something , i usually try to figure out how to make money off of it . 
supposed to talk about boats . 
have you got a boat ? 
i do n't , 
do you ? 
i do n't . 
i 've had one for quite a few years , 
but i 've not had one the last couple of years . 
but , it 's something i 've always enjoyed . 
do you like boating ? 
i love them . 
but my children all have been grown for a few years 
and we were using it less and less and less , 
so we decided to sell it . 
i heard , that 's the second happiest day of your life , . 
what 's that ? 
the day you sell your boat . 
i loved having a boat . 
i loved having it . 
i just heard that . 
that 's just a joke , i guess . 
but , i 'd like to have one . 
i just do n't know if i 'd have the time to use it . 
he needs his weekends free , to be able to use it or a day during the week or something , 
but , 
i do n't know , 
i felt like i got my money 's worth out of mine . 
i had bought it used and kept it , ten years and got within three hundred dollars when i sold it , of what i 'd paid for it and had it all those years . 
so you take care of them , they hold their value real well . 
so you could n't complain about that . 
did you go fishing ? 
it was a big boat , big ski boat type thing . 
i had a hundred sixty horse murcruiser in it . 
inboard outboard . 
i did fish out of it occasionally , 
but i 'm not too much of a fisherman . 
but i did enjoy owning a boat , 
i like to fish . 
would recommend it to anybody . 
and now sailing , i 've never been sailing . 
have you been sailing ? 
i 've sailed some . 
i just like fourteen foot sunfish . 
nothing big . 
i 've never tried . 
i 've always thought , i bet that would be more fun . 
but i 'd want to be with a skilled sailor . 
they offer classes out at ray hubbard . 
i 've always thought i 'd like to . 
i 've never wanted to bad enough to make any effort to do it . 
and , at this stage of the game , i 'm not that interested in it anymore . 
we go to the lake just about every weekend down at mount vernon 
and parents ' next door neighbors have a big barge 
and we go out and take them out on their barge . 
they 're getting kind of old 
and they like us to take them out on their barge quite often , 
so we get out on the water occasionally . 
that 's nice . 
but anyway , it 's fun . 
i do enjoy the lake , 
and we 'd go down there 
and i 'd get the boat out on saturday , 
and we 'd go for a ride and enjoy it so much . 
it 's such a pretty lake down there . 
we 'd enjoy it so much 
and , i 'd say , i 'm going to leave the boat out , because we 'll probably do this again tomorrow . 
it got to where tomorrow the boat was still sitting there 
and we never did go out again 
and i 'd have to go load it up the next day . 
where is that ? 
mount vernon . 
cypress springs , 
cypress creek springs . 
that 's south of here ? 
it 's down at mount vernon . 
it 's probably the prettiest lake in the state of texas . 
it 's just a hundred miles from here . 
what do you take , 
i thirty-five ? 
you go down , thirty . 
thirty . 
it 's east of here . 
east of here . 
hundred miles due east of here . 
we just moved down here a couple years ago , 
did you ? 
where did you all move from ? 
colorado springs . 
did you ? 
how are you liking it ? 
we love it up there . 
that 's where i grew up . 
but we like it down here pretty good . 
i think you 'll like it better , 
but , of course it 's hard when you do n't have any family around . 
we got two kids that are under two 
and it 's kind of tough when my folks call and they want to see them . 
it 's hard on your folks , too , 
i know . 
they 're all , yours 
and your wife 's folks still live in colorado ? 
there are supposed to be some people moving down here from colorado springs for t i . 
supposed to be . 
that 's right . 
do you work at t i ? 
i do n't , 
a friend of mine 's dad was a program manager up there 
he 's working in mckinney . 
i do n't either . 
my wife does . 
but , it 's a good company . 
but , anyway , we 're supposed to be talking about boats , 
so back to boats . 
tell me the last time you went for a boat ride . 
actually , i went canoeing down the brazos this weekend . 
that 's boating . 
that had to have been fun . 
it was fun , 
it was fun . 
are we paying too much in taxes , 
and are we getting what we pay for ? 
what 's your opinion ? 
it 's kind of a broad subject , 
i think there are some areas where we , pretty well get our money 's worth , 
but i also think there are a lot of areas especially in federal government , where we 're short changed . lot of money spent for things that are not used 
and i was in the air force 
and there was equipment at every base i was ever on that was just going to waste . 
it was just sitting and rusting 
i tend to agree with you . 
when it comes to government spending , there are so many studies done that do n't mean anything 
and it 's nice to know something does n't work or something does n't exist , 
but , it could be put to more practical use . 
and i think that it 's a tone of our times that politicians are into themselves more than they are into doing something worthwhile for the people they represent , which is really unfortunate . 
that is true . 
i agree with you in that area . 
i 'm from texas 
and i read how our politicians voted each week in the paper . 
and it 's interesting how the votes vary 
and what they ran on in platform do n't necessarily come true in their voting in the senate or congress , whatever . 
and do n't really respond to people who write them and call them 
and unless they 're in the limelight and under pressure . 
so 
i think we get short changed on that . 
that 's very true . 
what state do you live in ? 
texas . 
what do you think about robin hood ? 
i work for school district 
and it has hurt us a lot . 
there has to be some way to equalize education opportunities . 
but i think , especially big government , tends to think that the solution to everything is to throw money at it . 
and i do n't , 
that 's just not true . 
i do n't think money is going to take the place of intelligence or problem solving skills . 
i think there are too many things that money ca n't buy that are important as far as education is concerned . 
that 's true . 
what school district do you work for ? 
richardson . 
i work for plano . 
we 're comparable . 
as a matter of fact , i just paid my richardson taxes because i live in richardson and supplemented the robin hoods very thoroughly . 
i think we have got it on the line , do n't we . 
our taxes went up tremendously . 
and it 's not going to get any better . 
it 's going up and up and up . 
i used to live in the plano school district , 
and there was a taxpayers organization that finally communicated the message to the people in plano that we did n't want our taxes raised . 
i remember there was about four , five years ago . 
i think living in richardson , we 're kind of spoiled because i think we come closer to getting our money 's worth as far as the city is concerned than probably any city in the country . 
did you read in the dallas paper where they increased the administrators ' pay by thirty three percent after they laid off all those teachers . 
is that incredible ? 
that 's the biggest mess i 've ever heard of . 
how can you justify raising anybody 's salary if you have to lay people off ? 
but i 'm not going to complain because we all got a pay raise this year . 
you all got a pay raise this year . 
is that correct ? 
i think the teachers did , 
and i do n't know about administrators . 
i 'm semiretired 
and i was an administrator , 
so i do n't get a raise anymore . 
my pay does n't change . 
are you on the early retirement ? 
are you enjoying it ? 
very much . 
course , i still work two part-time jobs . 
so , it 's not really total retirement . 
let 's see , 
how old are you lisa ? 
i 'm twenty . 
how old are you ? 
i 'm older . 
older . 
older than you are . 
we are supposed to talk about places we like to go . 
so i 'm going , 
and where are you calling from ? 
i 'm calling from provo , utah , 
but i 'm from plano , texas . 
you are from plano . 
my sister lives in plano . 
her husband is the new director of admissions at university of texas at dallas . 
my dad used to work at u t d also . 
generally we just go on family vacations to arizona . 
where 's your favorite place to go ? 
my grandparents live there . 
that 's generally our usual summer vacation . 
where in arizona ? 
tempe . 
i 've never been to tempe . 
that 's where i 'd like to go . 
what do you like about tempe ? 
mainly just being with family is it . 
we just hang out 
and my grandparents have a pool 
so we go swimming 
pretty hot is n't it , in the summer ? 
but we keep cool just by going swimming 
and it 's fun to be with my cousins . 
they 're up there also , my grandparents and my cousins . 
that 's good . 
been to hawaii ? 
have you ? 
in fact , i just got some reservations . 
i 'm going to go for almost two weeks this winter . 
actually i lived there , 
so i was there longer , 
but two weeks is the longest vacation i 'll have ever taken there , 
so i 'm kind of looking forward to that one . 
around christmas time ? 
in march . 
we 're going to go in march after my children 's birthdays and get all that business out of the way . 
so i think , i would like to go to arizona . 
i was in phoenix in january , last january 
but it was rainy and icky . 
it was the coldest it 's been there ever in january , i think . 
it 's very cold . 
so , do you travel a lot 
but , i would like to go to tempe . 
do we travel a lot ? 
i was a travel agent . 
i have been up until just a few months ago . 
but i 'm thinking of going back to work . 
so you know a lot of good vacation spots , 
i know a lot of good places to go . 
but you definitely need to go to hawaii . 
that 's your favorite ? 
it is my favorite . 
my husband has n't been to europe yet 
and i 'd like to take him there . 
but he 's traveled all over the united states 
and i have n't . 
i have n't been down south . 
i 'd like to go to new orleans . 
have you been there ? 
i have n't . 
where do you live ? 
i live in yakima , washington . 
so it 's cold and rainy today . 
it 's yucky . 
but we 've had some pretty nice weather . 
we played tennis outdoors until last week , 
so that 's a pretty good deal . 
do you go to school in provo , utah ? 
i do . 
do you use nuskin skin care . 
they 're located in provo . 
i work for nuskin . 
do you ? 
i 'm a nuskin person . 
i sell nuskin , too . 
not only and best 
but i 'm my best customer . 
since we 're not supposed to talk about this , though , is there anything more intensive for the eye area than the eye cream ? 
do you know ? 
i do n't , 
maybe the rejuvenating cream is the only other thing i would use . 
i have that , too . 
i 'm forty-two , 
i need something , 
i need more . 
than the intensive eye ? 
i did n't know if there was anything else . 
and i use the celltrex . 
nuskin is wonderful . 
i think it 's a wonderful product . 
do you use it ? 
i do , 
we get free products every month 
that 's great . 
now i 'm getting about sixty bucks a month , free products 
i 've worked there about a year . 
that 's good . 
are they good to work for ? 
they 're wonderful to work for . 
that 's great . 
so we 're supposed to be talking about places to go 
and you have not been to europe . 
do you go to school ? 
do you ski ? 
i ski , 
you probably ski very well in utah . 
i do n't . 
actually since i grew up in texas i 've only been here about two years and have gone skiing about five times each season . 
why did you move to utah ? 
you are going to school ? at b y u , 
is that where b y u is ? 
i know some people that went to b y u . 
that 's great . 
pretty good . 
i do like to ski . 
pretty down there . 
i said i do like to ski . 
so , where , have you skied ? 
and it 's kind of nice being up here just because it 's all like a vacation in itself when you get to go . 
if you like that kind of thing . 
you 're a sophomore . or junior ? 
i am actually a junior . 
beginning of my junior year . 
you 're a junior . 
good for you . 
what are you studying ? 
nursing . 
good for you . 
you sound like a girl that has it together . 
i would just encourage you to do a little traveling , though , before you get married . 
because when you get married , you wo n't have the money or the time . 
you think , 
i know . 
do n't be in any hurry . 
i 'm not , 
i 'm not . 
you really should go to europe . 
i went to europe for six weeks after i graduated from college 
i could have had that or a down payment on a new car 
and i took the trip . 
and it was great ? 
i traveled with a group of sixteen other students . 
actually there was two other graduating seniors besides myself , 
and we just had a ball . 
how long did you get to stay there ? 
six weeks . 
it was wonderful , 
so you should think about doing something like that . 
i just had a friend that got back from europe 
and she was there all winter semester . 
jeri ? 
we 're supposed to discuss crime in the united states and what can be done with it . 
that 's a rather broad topic . 
they 're usually pretty broad anyway . 
where do you live ? 
we live in plano . 
and where ? 
i 'm in richardson , 
so when i heard the topic i was thinking of the thing down at maceo high school in dallas . 
that is so frightening . 
it is , 
do you have children in school ? 
mine are already in college now , 
at least when they were in high school , it was beginning but not the rampages . 
my oldest is his first year in high school 
so we have all this to look forward to , 
and it is really frightening to think that you ca n't even send them to school in safety . 
certainly you ca n't just turn them loose in the middle of dallas , 
but when you ca n't even , send them on their normal activities in safety , it 's really frightening . 
that 's true . 
they 're coming down on the principal , 
but i really do n't know what they can do . 
it 's just in so much of society with the violence and the kids having access to weapons and drugs 
and i really do n't know what can be done . 
i just do n't understand of course , in my little world , how guns could be so available . 
i do n't either , 
but apparently they just really are . 
to me , in plano you would think that would be about as innocent as you could get , for being in a large area . 
but my son comes home and tells me that he hears kids talk about having guns 
and someone came to his football practice about two weeks ago with a gun . 
and it just scared me to death 
and they called the police 
and nothing happened , 
but it could have easily . 
maybe that 's the answer to crime is getting more prosecution . 
maybe so . 
somehow i feel we 're living in an impartial society as far as people seeing something happen across the street , or seeing someone get mugged , or unfortunately , raped , 
and people do n't do anything . 
a woman was raped in richardson , i read in the paper about two weeks ago now . 
and all the neighbors said they heard her yelling for help . 
but nobody did anything . 
i just ca n't imagine that . 
they heard someone calling for help . 
nobody even called the police to say i hear a strange screaming 
i do n't blame people with today 's society about going out to help themselves . 
i can see especially if you heard screams from a house or something , not going over there maybe , because it could be dangerous , 
but certainly i ca n't understand not calling the police . 
it 's really frightening that we 're trying to live in our own little cocoons 
and probably one of the best things we could do for crime is to participate ourselves in its prevention . 
i think you 're right there . 
i guess people just kind of keep their noses pointed in their own business , 
but i think that 's real dangerous 
and i do n't know . 
i try to tell my kids just kind of be aware of what 's around them 
and , if you see a situation that looks like it could be trouble , just get out of it or call for help , whichever . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know , 
i ca n't say they do n't care , because people just have to care about another person . 
but it 's that not getting involved , that impersonal society , i think we live in today . 
maybe this thing , with the child at school , maybe that will make people think a bit more and take some steps to correct it . 
i do n't know , 
it really is frightening . 
let me ask you , 
he did n't have a license for the gun ? 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know the details . 
this was not a child that was on the team . 
it was someone that , just kind of showed up at the field . 
it was a student age person , 
my name is leslie . 
i 'm jennifer . 
and where are you from ? 
pennsylvania . 
nice , 
i 'm from dallas , texas . 
that 's neat . 
television shows ? 
that sounds good . 
i do n't watch too many , 
but we can try it . 
are you ready to start ? 
sure am . 
just a minute . 
i guess we 're recording now . 
what are your favorite television shows ? 
i do n't really watch too many t v shows other than occasionally i 'll turn on donahue because it comes on in the morning when i seem to be getting ready around here . 
so if there 's no one else around it 's just me and i have a chance to listen to something , i 'll turn that on , 
but just for the conversation factor , i think , 
and then i think i enjoy when i catch it designing women sometimes , 
i love that show . 
do you ? . 
that is great . 
it 's fun . 
and then there 's a new one that started out that i 've caught a couple of times called good and evil . 
i heard they just canceled that . 
i read in today 's paper they just canceled that show . 
it is a real different one . 
it 's different . 
i guess i watch it more out of the uniqueness of it and the time that it comes on more than the fact that i have to see it . 
have you seen the show called home front ? 
i have n't watched that . 
it 's really good . 
i think it 's on tuesday nights from ten to eleven 
and it 's set in post world war two times 
and it 's about how the servicemen come home and readjust to civilian life here and the changes everyone 's going through . 
it 's really interesting . 
it 's kind of like a nighttime soap opera type thing . 
sounds neat . 
it is , 
it 's really well written . 
what station ? 
i do n't even know , to tell you the truth . 
what other shows do you like ? 
i prefer oprah winfrey to donahue . 
she comes on later 
and i usually have kids around so i do n't end up watching that one is the only problem i have with it , i guess . 
i did watch soap operas , 
but i work full-time now and ca n't catch those anymore . except when i 'm home sick , 
and now when i watch them , i think , why did i ever watch those ? 
that 's right . 
they 're stupid . 
so when i did watch them i was addicted to them every day . 
but not anymore . 
that can happen . 
so do you know of any other shows in the even , or something that you enjoy ? 
tonight i 'm looking forward to seeing golden girls . 
that 's always fun . 
i like that show . 
and if i can stay up late enough , i like to catch saturday night live every now and then . 
and right now we 're watching a penn state football game because that 's where we live . 
it 's exciting , 
we 're winning , 
so that 's really exciting . 
i also , course , like to catch the news during the evening hours 
but it 's a little tough because that 's when i 'm usually making dinner and the kids are wanting to talk all at the same time . 
so , usually i do n't get a whole lot of news watching in . 
we watch c n n in morning while we 're getting ready for the day and eating breakfast . 
we 'll catch our news that way . 
watch the weather channel so that we know what the weather 's going to be like . 
what have you seen interesting on oprah winfrey lately ? 
lately , i have n't been catching it because of my work schedule . 
i ca n't remember the last time i saw it . 
it 's been a while . 
i do n't know if we 've talked our full three minutes or not . 
i do n't know , 
sometimes they come on and say . 
that 's right . 
today on c n n they were talking about something like this about learning to recognize voices and words and stuff and the research that 's going on which is kind of what we 're doing , helping them get a data base for words . 
it was really interesting . 
it is interesting . 
do you work for texas instruments ? 
just doing this as a fund-raiser for our church . 
that 's nice . 
so it kind of makes it easy to do a little something for it . 
because we 've talked to a lot of people from texas , it seems , 
what kind of house do you live in ? 
we live in a brick home in far north dallas 
and it 's four bedrooms and three and a half baths and swimming pool in the back 
and , it 's about thirty-five hundred square feet . 
it sounds like ours are pretty similar . 
i live in one , 
i do n't have a swimming pool . 
and mine 's about twenty-seven hundred square foot . 
but the four bedrooms and all the rest of it sounds just , about alike . 
i think it 's pretty much typical for this area . 
it is . 
have you been living there very long ? 
i 've been in the house about twelve and a half years . 
so you 've been there longer . 
let 's see , 
it 's been six and a half years ago , 
and we subcontracted it out ourselves . 
we bought the lot and had an architect draw the plans based on our specifications 
and then we subbed it out , 
so , we 've been here a little over six years now . and have really enjoyed it because we built what we wanted to have to live in . 
my husband got his big garage . 
we have a three car garage , that he has a big work area in 
and he likes to rebuild cars and redo engines 
and , so he has all the work space he needs . 
that sounds interesting . 
i bet he 's enjoyed having it that way 
because 
kind of hard to find one prebuilt that kind of fits those specifications . 
it is , 
and that 's why we decided to build . 
we looked at things that were already built 
and if the house was large , it seemed like the garages were small even if they were three car garages which is what we have . 
then , most of them do n't have a three car garage . 
they 're kind of rare . 
so we put a three car garage in . 
but , even if they had three car garages , they did n't have a work space . 
all of it was taken up with just car space . 
and so he has a big landing area that 's between where the cars are in the garage and where the house starts that he can work on . 
we 've just got a two car garage , 
but my husband 's got a big space in between where the cars are and the house , where he has a big work shop workbench and everything . 
sounds like our husbands have similar interests . 
mine does not work on cars , 
he just piddles on this and that . 
i see . 
but he likes to have a spot to keep all of his piddling things . 
that 's nice that it 's not in your house . 
it really is . 
because they have a lot of things of their own , 
and i at one time was going to fix up when one of my daughters left , a bedroom to where i had a room to just put all of my craft stuff and sewing machine and all that kind of stuff , 
i do n't know , 
it ended up i got some furniture back that one of them had moved out or something . 
so i did n't end up with my vacant room like i had thought i would . 
we still have a son and daughter in college that come home . 
and the other room we use as a guest bedroom because my husband 's family come . 
his parents come 
and also the kids have friends who come and stay 
and so it seems like it 's always used as a bedroom . 
all three of my daughters are married , 
but , i do n't know , 
i just still have need for the four bedrooms just having company from time to time . and some of them coming back home and things . 
i understand . 
and we 've got grandchildren now , 
so when they come , they have to have a place . 
that 's true 
and you do n't want them to not be able to come because there 's no room . 
that 's right , 
you sure do n't . 
at times i keep thinking , though , that might be kind of nice . 
i have n't reached that point yet . 
i 've heard people say that . 
but my middle son is engaged , 
my oldest son has been going with the same girl for a while . 
he 's out of college and has a good job , 
so he could afford to get married but , is not engaged yet , 
and my daughter 's been going with the same boy for a while , 
but she 's still in college 
and we 're just as happy for her to finish her education first . 
that 's what she plans to do . 
i do n't blame you for that . 
i hope so . 
i have the three girls 
and then we ended up with four grandsons . 
and little boys are around the house a whole lot more than girls . 
a whole new world . 
and i enjoy them coming , but for short doses . 
i can understand . 
after they 've been here ten minutes , they have already explored the entire house , 
they know everything . 
but , they 're fun . 
so you 're all back to the safety catches and the whole nine yards or either watching them every minute . 
i just watch them . 
i never did put things up when my kids were little 
and i have n't with them . 
i try to teach them not to get into things . 
that 's the same thing that i did . 
i hope i 'll be able to do the same with grandchildren . 
i think that once you do that , your children kind of develop the same attitudes . 
at least my daughters have . 
they try to teach theirs not to get into things instead of having to put everything up . 
so it 's worked pretty well . 
i do n't really think anything 's been broken . 
every now and then we have to kind of go and say , do n't bother this . 
but , all in all , they mind pretty well . 
what kind of roof does your house have ? 
here i 'm getting off the subject . 
we 're supposed to talk about crime in the city . 
and seems like all big cities have plenty of that nowadays , does n't it ? 
statistics , obviously , vary greatly . 
i always thought of dallas as being a fairly safe place . 
it is , 
but i was listening to the news the other day 
and they said they thought a lot of it , the reason it was up so was because so many people are without work nowadays , 
economy 's so bad . 
do you really believe that ? 
it 's been up every year for many years 
and the economy has n't been , this bad for so long , has it ? 
that 's a good point . 
that 's just what they quoted over the news . 
i do n't know if i believe that or not , 
but , it does seem up 
what kind of newspaper do you get down there ? 
what kind ? 
i think we got a pretty good newspaper . 
we have two , the morning news and the times herald . 
morning news seems to have the largest circulation . 
it 's a locally owned paper . 
the herald is owned by the times out of l a , or somewhere . 
do they play up the local crime angles 
they do n't , 
not really , 
they do n't play it up , i do n't think . 
but there is too much of it too many homes broken into . 
last year sometime our home was broken into . 
so this is a topic of personal interest . 
i did n't think ours ever would be burgled , 
but , so many in our neighborhood had been , 
so you saw this happening in your neighborhood 
and you figured it would n't happen to you . 
sort of . 
and i never did get a security system , 
but since that happened , i certainly have . 
what kind of system do you have ? 
, with all the doors and the infrared motion detector . 
pretty standard . 
is this one with some company that services you and takes your calls and all that stuff ? 
it 's monitored and all that . 
is that a necessary feature to have somebody at the other end of the line 
or is it enough just to have a thing that makes loud noise ? 
i think the thing that makes a lot of noise would suffice . 
i really do . 
but this deal that was part of it for three years or so to pay the unit off or whatever . 
the monitoring is not that bad , though 
because we 've goofed it up , 
several times you 'll hit the wrong key , not intentionally or something 
and they call back pretty quickly , 
so i think it 's all right . 
to answer your question i think , that is a pretty good deterrent in itself , 
so you got a sign up there that says you got this alarm system . 
and what if a burglar comes along and cuts your phone line ? 
it 's got a back up system that does n't work supposedly . that if it 's cut supposedly it notifies them anyway . 
supposedly . 
how does it do that ? 
who knows . 
but that 's a selling point . 
and i think it probably does these things supposedly pretty good . 
they sure advertise so many of them nowadays . 
but do n't you all have a pretty high crime rate up there ? 
i 'm not saying it 's any higher than anybody else 's . 
or not here , 
but the statistics seem to say that . 
i do n't know . 
i think it 's the murder capital of the country now . 
is that right ? 
i would gather probably from drugs . 
and i think that 's the reason it 's so high everywhere . 
years ago , you thought , these little small cities and all , would n't have that problem , 
but they do . 
we 've had relatives that their children were just as involved in it as anyone . 
so , what 's the solution ? 
that 's a good question . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know what the solution is . 
i really do n't . 
and all these politicians make hay over being anticrime , 
but they have n't seemed to have changed anything . 
and nothing seems to change . 
but , they want to buy it , 
supply and demand . 
long as somebody wants to buy it , somebody going to provide it for them . 
so , i do n't know what the solution is , 
i really do n't . 
i do n't think anyone does , in fact . 
just to let you know , i have two children of my own . 
i 've got two boys one four year old and one two years old , 
so i 'm just starting out . 
i have two boys who are twenty-eight and twenty-four and a daughter who is twelve . 
that 's quite a spread . 
same husband , everything . 
that 's great . 
one of the things that i like to do with my boys when i get home is , i like to try and spend a lot of time with them . 
they 're not very old , 
so they could n't do a whole lot , yet . 
but they like to spend time with me . 
we just do various things , nothing really . 
they like to be outside as much as possible . 
if it 's not raining . 
but the weather 's trying to turn now 
are you down here in texas ? 
i 'm in dallas . 
you know what i meant with rain . 
what , 
one of the trends i 've noticed is that it 's always too easy to just plop your kids down in front of the t v and let them watch movies or play video games or something . 
can you hold on just a sec- , 
i have to answer a business phone . 
i hate to do it on this call . 
that 's okay . 
a r e , 
this is arlene lister . 
it was just a recorded message , on our business phone anyway . 
i 'm sorry , 
keep going . 
it 's okay . 
so that was the thing that i noticed that , i know a lot of friends that we have , they have a tendency to do the same thing . 
and one of the things we try to do is we try to avoid doing that as much as possible . although it really is very easy to do that type of thing . just plop them down in front of the t v and let them be entertained that way . 
and seeing as you 've got some older children , i 'm wondering , how did you handle that , when they were growing up ? 
there was not nearly as much of it . 
in fact , i think things were quite a bit different . 
when my big kids were little all the mothers were home . 
the kids got up in the morning and ate breakfast and poked around 
and then when they felt like it , they went out to play when they were little like that . 
and i think it 's gotten very different . 
when my second one was little , they were coming out with sesame street which he started watching 
and , other than that there was not educational t v 
or you got some cartoons 
and that was it , 
but they were never that interested in it anyway . 
they 'd take their trucks out in the backyard go out and play and stuff . 
but , we always did just . 
we did a lot of stuff like that with our kids . 
and , course , when they got bigger they were both quite into sports 
and so whatever they would do , we 'd go along with 
and a girl is very different . 
a girl would like you to spend time with her going shopping . 
so , they 're very , very different , 
last night was a band concert 
and she plays on her school volleyball team and stuff like that . 
but we still like to pack up just go someplace for the day or just stuff like that . 
one of our older kids now is going to graduate school down at college station 
that 's nice . 
we go down there fairly often for a weekend for family get-togethers and stuff like that . 
that 's great . 
that 's great . 
i know i 'd like to get into do more camping and outings and things . 
and i think we probably will soon as the boys get a little bit older . 
just getting out in the front , and just being outside is good for them 
because they like just being outside . 
i think , our kids just always dearly loved that , 
course , when our big ones were little , we lived up north 
and this time of the year the fun thing was to go out and swoosh around in the leaves . 
so it 's very different 
that 's true , 
you do n't see many leaves around dallas . 
and , come winter time we 'd stick them on sleds . 
and we had a pond across the street 
it 's so different down here where you go take lessons to learn to ice skate or something . 
when our kids were little you got them a pair of skates . 
do you have a pet ? 
i have two cats . 
and two fish . 
two cats , 
you 're lucky . 
your two fish . 
and what do you have ? 
you know , how , sometimes when you marry someone that you get along on everything except one major thing . 
my husband is a hunter , fisherman , outdoorsman , marlboro type person who had to have a sporting dog . 
so we have a black labrador . 
beautiful , gorgeous black labrador , 
but to me , he belongs up in the farm 
does he sleep in your house ? 
because we finally negotiated that i was losing my mind he sleeps in the laundry room 
and then he goes out for the day . 
but this is a beautiful dog 
and he is wonderful with our little girls 
and he comes from a purebred line 
and there 's nothing you could say bad about him , except that i was more of a cat or a small dog person that you could sit in the chair and cuddle . 
and this is huge . 
course , when he runs around the yard , he just digs , 
he does n't know that he 's tearing up things , 
but he does . 
and the worst part that i had with him was when he was about eight months old 
and i did not know what to expect from a dog having not had one , 
and i left him in the kitchen with the little baby gates up while i was gone for about an hour . 
and i came home 
and he had ripped my wallpaper off my wall . 
and it was in the floor 
and i just about lost it 
and i called 
and i said , come home and get your dog . 
and so , he said , puppies just chew when they 're nervous 
and i wish you had told me , 
and it was about eight months later , he ate a piece of the linoleum . 
he kept picking at it 
the tile in the kitchen 
and picked a hole in it . 
so the last thing he did was , when i had sat out a whole lot of begonias in the backyard , and he dug them all up and brought them to the porch . 
and i told my husband , i said it 's either me or the dog , 
he loves this dog 
and every night when he comes home from work , he hugs it and talks to him 
and he 's a good dog , 
so it 's one of those things i 'm just having to get used to 
and that 's why i laughed when they called with the topic . 
i thought , do i have a pet . 
but , i grew up with cats 
i love my cats . 
i had one cat for eighteen years . 
i got her when i lived in hawaii . 
before i even got married i had my cat . 
she 's old . 
i had to have her put to sleep last june . 
then you broke your heart . 
it was awful , 
it was just awful . 
and she just sat there on my lap . 
she just waited 
bless your heart . 
it was awful . 
that makes me feel so bad . 
but the bad thing was , though , she would pee in my husband 's shoes . 
and she just liked his shoes 
and he 'd have these hundred dollar shoes . 
it was just bad . 
and it was something . 
that 's awful , 
i never heard of that before . 
it was terrible . 
if our shoes sat side by side , she would pee in my husband 's shoes . 
she must have known he did n't like her or something . 
or the smell or something . 
and i would bar the closet doors , and would clean the carpets 
it was just awful . 
does your cat sleep in the house ? 
that was very funny . 
they are house cats . 
i have two cats right now . 
they sleep with my kids . 
my fourteen year old son has an extra pillow on his bed just for the cat . 
but the cat does n't destruct does it ? 
it does n't do anything . 
i 'm not going to have a dog . 
we 've had two dogs 
and they both got ran over . after we had them for several years , just nice little outside dogs 
were just my kids ' friends , 
they would go with me when i would go running 
and the last one got hit as she was following one of my sons across the road to the school . 
it was awful . 
and it 's too heartbreaking 
but they do dig up and they just wreck things 
and i 'm not a dog person . 
they do wreck things . 
i 'm not either . 
i 'm not either 
i would n't want a lab . 
it sounds beautiful , 
he 's beautiful 
but it 's just one of those concessions , i just had to make , 
but i kind of ignore him . 
today 's the first cold we 've had in texas 
and it 's really cold and drizzly 
and it 's freezing 
and people are doing their fires 
and i brought him in because he 's just a wet mess out there 
and he 's in the laundry room with this little carpet square 
and he 's just huddled up like , if you 'll be nice to me , i wo n't make any trouble . 
and then my daughters both have hamsters . 
and how old are your girls ? . 
they 're eleven and eight 
and i gave in at christmas 
and they keep their cages real clean . 
it always smells of cedar 
i think they 're cutting us off . 
somebody 's trying to cut in on my line 
and i do n't want to answer . 
i 'll just wait . 
i 've got incoming calls 
and i do n't know why , -body 's calling . 
i hate to cut it off , 
i think they would cut us off , 
i understand . 
so we 'll just wait . 
whoever it is will call back . 
they 'll cut us off pretty soon . 
it 's somebody calling for my kids , 
i know . 
actually , it 's my son , 
i know it is . 
my older boy . he never likes to come home from school . 
anyway that 's what we have , 
and i 've tried to start a fish tank 
and i keep losing all my fish . 
in the salt water ? 
just regular water . 
is it mike ? 
do you repair your own car ? 
i try to , whenever i can . 
i 've always been a product of a handyman father . 
i tell you what , 
count your blessings because it really is good when someone can do some things to a car themselves . 
although i 'll tell you , 
over the years the cars get more complicated . 
that 's why i do n't do as much as i 'd like . 
because they 've gotten complicated have n't they ? . 
one of my first cars was a fifty-six buick . which , after awhile i could take it apart in my sleep if i needed to . 
is that right ? 
it got to be pretty straightforward to understand 
and , now since then the closer a car is to a fifty-six buick , the more i know about it . 
and then start getting into these nissans and the like 
and i just ca n't keep up . 
i agree . 
i never was too mechanically inclined , 
course , they do n't use points anymore . 
that 's right . 
but they do still use plugs . 
and now brakes , i 've always done a lot of changing brakes . 
and i could always do the alternator and starter . 
i do n't anymore , 
but i have a lot of times . 
i understand . 
my last car repair actually had to do with brakes 
and it 's one i did not do myself . 
i have a seventy-nine el dorado , 
took it to be inspected 
and the parking brake failed . 
so i got under there and messed with that adjustment to tighten it up 
and that did n't do the trick 
it probably slipped loose , did n't it ? 
actually that was n't even eventually the problem . 
i did everything that i could think to do . 
and , eventually i brought it up to a place called just brakes 
the parking brake in the rear , 
there 's disc brakes 
and the parking brake is a piston deal . 
and because the parking brake had n't been used in so many years , the piston froze up . 
they ended up having to pound it out . 
and one of them , they , were able to get running kind of oiling it and playing with it 
and the other one it was just frozen solid , 
so i ended up having to buy one 
and all total , it was just under two hundred dollars , believe it or not , to get all that done . 
it really was n't quite , as bad as you thought , was it ? 
actually , i think it was a lot of money , 
it was a lot of money , 
it got to the point where i did n't know what was going on 
you had to have the help , did n't you ? 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
do you still do much work on them , then ? 
i do . 
actually that was just at the beginning of september 
and , whenever i can , i do try . 
actually , i 'd say this . 
disposal is a problem . 
that is one problem , 
but also these fast oil change places , you just ca n't beat them . 
that 's true . 
for sixteen bucks not only will they change the oil in ten minutes , and do as good a job as i can do , but they 'll lube , too . 
that 's true . 
that , 
i 've quit doing that myself . 
but one of the main reasons was the disposal of the oil . 
that 's right . 
but 
and the main reason . 
they just raised our taxes up here about a year ago . 
they 've statewide raises , 
they raise ours constantly . 
we just passed a new one , 
fortunately or unfortunately it does n't go into effect because we did not get the united airlines . 
indianapolis got that , did n't they ? 
and we had passed a provisional one that if they did locate here we would raise our taxes . 
but at least we thought we 'd get something back from that . 
how do you feel about taxes ? 
it seems like a big politics game 
up here , last year , the governor was up for re-election 
so he said the budget was fine , 
the state did n't have any money 
and then right after he won the election he said we owed a lot of money 
so they raised all our taxes . 
and now it 's election time again 
so they 're trying to lower them . 
so they 're just talk about lowering them 
but they never do , 
they just keep raising them . 
i 've never seen taxes really go down . 
me neither . 
actually they 're going to here because they did n't have a budget for so long 
so they raised the tax rate real high for the last three months of this year 
and they 're going to lower it for next year . 
i guess they figure they 're going to make up for all they did n't get when they should have had a budget . 
i hope they put that in writing . 
they say they 're going to lower , 
but i 'll see . 
i feel like the middle class people are supporting the nation and that the rich are not paying their share 
and of course the poor ca n't afford it either , 
i 'm a middle class person income wise anyway 
and i get tired of supporting the whole country . 
so do i . 
i 'm middle class barely , 
but i do n't think the rich are paying not enough , 
i think they 're paying too much . 
you think the rich are paying too much ? 
if you 're in the three percent bracket and they take a third of your check every month that 's ridiculous . 
why bother working ? 
i 'm talking about the really rich . 
they should just tax everybody the same amount no matter what you make . 
that would be fair . 
i 'll go along with that , 
no loopholes or anything . 
everybody pays ten percent or fifteen or whatever . 
i think that would be fair . 
no ifs , ands and buts , 
no big elaborate laws that call for a lot of enforcement or a lot of review . 
it 's just you make this , you pay ten percent . 
if you make a hundred dollars , you pay ten percent , 
if you make a million dollars , you pay ten percent . 
that 's the way our state tax is here . 
i think it 's pretty fair . 
our state taxes are somewhat based on the federal . 
and they have not gotten it where the withholding is accurate . 
and you withhold no matter what you do , 
they withhold what they 're supposed to 
and at the end of the year it 's not enough . 
so you ought to be saving up some every month to make up for all what they should be taking out . 
so now when you sign your w-two whatever that is , then they always say , do you want a extra amount for state . which is ridiculous , 
but it 's been that way for the last probably ten years . 
i guess you have to check yes 
or you come down to the end of the year 
and you do n't have it to give it to them . 
unless you have a lot of deductions . 
but if you have a lot of federal deduction , it ends up hurting you state wise . 
and you end up owing , 
you may get nine hundred dollars back from federal 
and you 're going to owe fifteen hundred in state . 
and it 's just ridiculous . 
but , i do n't know . 
they just came up with a twenty-five percent increase on personal property in oklahoma county 
and that is a chunk . 
i 'll say . 
i mean twenty-five percent increase . 
what i believe is one of the major things that is wrong with our public school system is that we do not have enough discipline 
and the parents do not let the teachers discipline the children the way that they need to be disciplined right now . 
i agree with that . 
when i went to school , i know i was scared to death about being disciplined , 
you were ? 
and the discipline that my daughter receives now in going to school is just totally different . 
i did not see anybody in my classrooms , when i was going to school , act up the way that kids do these days in the classroom . 
from what i understand , they act up pretty bad . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
what grade is your daughter in ? 
my daughter 's in the fourth grade 
and there 's children in her classroom that just totally disrupt the classroom , where the teacher can not teach 
and when i went to school that just was n't put up with . 
they always had a paddle in our school . 
they just do n't do that any more . 
i know . 
but the school system 's afraid of getting sued and all sorts of lawsuits because of things like that . 
and , i also believe even though i feel like i pay a good share towards the school system , that the teachers are still underpaid 
and we still do n't have enough money put in toward public school . 
and i think that if we had enough money and paid the teachers a little bit more , that maybe that could solve some of our problems . 
was n't that what part of the lottery is going to go for , if we approve it ? 
supposedly that 's what it 's suppose to go for , 
and we 'll just have to wait and see whether that 's approved or not . 
i do n't know your feelings toward that . 
i guess we should n't get into that 
and what else 
i think in some ways that they need to be more careful of the teachers that they hire . 
i have heard stories from other parents that i know of that teachers are out there giving drugs and selling drugs , 
i 've heard some horrible , horrible stories about high school teachers 
and to be more careful of the teachers that we place in our school . 
that 's basically about all that i know that may be wrong with the school system . 
with what they have to work with , i think they 're doing a pretty good job right now . 
i do too , 
i think they 're doing real good job . 
but , then , what do i know , 
you do n't have any children in school ? do n't have any kids . 
i do n't have any kids . 
none at all . 
so this is probably a real hard subject for you . 
i guess we can discontinue our call now . 
it was a joy in talking with you . 
it was good talking to you too . 
we 'll see you , 
i 've never done it before , 
so i guess that 's all i have to do . 
i guess so . 
i 've been called several times , 
and i pushed in my number , 
they kept saying you have the invalid code 
and then i found out that my new phone was n't working right . 
so this is the first time i 've even done it . 
i wonder how long it 's going to be on for . 
i think five minutes is the max . 
i mean , this whole thing , 
for two months or something , 
do you know ? 
i do n't know . 
back to crime , 
i guess we 're supposed to talk about that . 
they say what aspect are you worried about , 
i think at this point , i for one am worried about every aspect . 
especially you , since you 're in the same metroplex , , 
there 's so much going on here . 
i think the drive by shootings are getting to be so common , that 's really something you got to protect yourself from . 
that , and in the schools , too starting to put metal detectors in , 
i know . 
have they done that in garland ? 
not that i 'm aware of . 
i just heard last week at that one school , they started putting them in because there was that one shooting 
we had a vice principal shot at here last year on the school grounds after school . 
is that right ? 
and the one boy killed himself a few years ago , in a grade school , 
so these kids do n't have any trouble getting a hold of guns in any neighborhood , does n't seem like . 
not at all . 
it 's kind of scary to think , you send your child to school 
and you wonder if he 's going to get shot . 
we did n't have to worry about that before . 
i know . 
what next ? 
i know , 
it 's been out of hand for a while , 
and it just continues to get worse . 
and we ca n't really depend on the police to solve all this , 
they just ca n't do it . 
i think it goes all the way back to the break up of the family to a certain extent 
and how we going to bring that back together . 
i agree , 
i think that 's where it stems from , is that 
and you 've got a lot more women that are working nowadays that are n't home with the children 
and that may impact it as well . 
i think so , 
and then there 's a drop in the training of morals , really . 
some of these young kids you read about , just does n't bother them to kill someone at all 
i think years past maybe our criminals had a little more morals would n't kill somebody in cold blood . 
they do n't think twice about it . 
i think it was just rare , 
i really do . 
my mother . when she was a young girl , she had a beautiful , beautiful cousin that lived in california , 
and she was dating this millionaire 's son 
and he wanted to marry her , 
and she would n't marry him 
and so he drove out in the country one day and shot them both , 
you 're kidding . 
himself and her ? 
that must have been at least fifty years ago or more , 
but the point of the story is that , that was so unbelievable a thing in those days that it was in all the papers , all over the country for weeks 
i bet . 
but now you would n't probably read about it here in texas 
i know , 
it 's just another killing . 
i was watching some show the other day , 
and they were talking about mass murderers 
and they brought up what happened in killeen here recently , 
lots of their picture and life story and everything . 
and then you get to their life story , 
they came from a broken family 
this person had mental problems 
, 
i know , 
how we and straighten up all these twisted people before they do something terrible , 
so that story i just told you about my mother 's beautiful cousin the same thing happened here in arlington to a girl that my daughter had graduated from high school with . 
is that right ? 
i think it was on a hard copy , 
she was a real attractive blond girl , in her freshman year of college 
and some boy she tried to get rid of , he was in his twenties , 
i remember seeing that , 
remember that ? 
i saw that on hard copy . 
my daughter graduated with her from arlington high school . 
is that right ? 
can you believe it , 
i 'm trying to remember , 
he had her in the car in front of a taco or something 
taco bueno , 
and he just shot them himself and her . 
i remember seeing that . 
is n't that weird ? 
there 's just too many crazy people out there these days . 
i know , 
and the police are not going to do anything until they 've committed some sort of a crime . 
he was just begging her on the phone , 
that 's not doing anything . 
what do you know about latin american policies ? 
i think they 're kind of ambivalent , really . 
i just have a feeling that we 've kind of talked out of both sides of mouths down there like we do in some other situations . 
. are you relating this to the affair we 've got going on in haiti right now ? 
half the time we do n't know who to support . 
that , and maybe it 's tough for a big powerful nation to deal with , countries like that that depend on us so much without running their country for them 
that 's just it . 
it 's got to be tough , 
but you still have to let them know how you feel . 
no matter which side we take , we 're going to have supporters 
and we 're going to have antisupporters , i guess , for lack of better term , 
and like you said , they 're such small countries , that we 're bound to upset somebody , 
but we seem to be lacking the ability to take a stance . 
it worries me that the economy of so many countries in south america and central america depend on something that damages people , like cocaine from columbia , 
and of course i 'm sure we have some enemies down there who would n't care what happened to us , 
but that 's a tough deal , 
that 's true . 
maybe it 's , i 'm reflecting how i feel about it , 
but i have a feeling that we really do n't understand basically the competing factions in lot of those countries 
and they 've been hammering for the last ten centuries , 
and it 's still going on , 
and we dabble in it just enough to make both sides angry at us some how , some times , 
that 's about the lump sum of it . 
i was speaking with a woman from the honduras or guatemala , or somewhere in there , 
she was from el salvador 
and she was from a relatively wealthy family , 
what 's his face , 
he 's in florida jail now , 
marcos 
marcos is philippines , 
i 'm blank on it . 
you know who i 'm talking about . 
i can see his face forget his name . 
i know it , 
when he came into power , he basically just took everybody 's property just assigned it to himself . 
kind of nationalized it for himself , 
so she 's been a real strong supporter of the sandinistas and has been trying to back the u s government in that respect , 
dictator , 
basically a dictator fascist . 
and it seems like those countries are so easily susceptible to that kind of thing , 
unstable . 
what do you think of this u s free trade agreement we 're working on with mexico ? 
i think it 's long overdue 
there 's so much difference in the economies of the two countries , 
i have a problem with whether it 's going to work or not , 
this may be unfair to mexico , 
but it seems like there 's a lack of honesty in foreign policy a lot of the times . 
mexico , the mexican government is trying , and a lot of the larger mexican businesses are trying to make themselves americanized which is great because that 's what they basically need to do . 
the big problem with the united states is we have our basic nine to five schedule , 
and we do n't have the siesta , 
and the cultural differences it 's what 's really hurting the mexican people , because they 've had their way of life , 
and we 've had our way of life , 
tell me what you like to do . 
i collect antique tools for one thing , 
i 'm sort of in an antique business , 
but it 's a little sideline , part time thing . 
and i 'm building a log house at a farm that i have in east texas , which is a hundred miles from here . 
it 's really neat . 
and course i 've been working on it for five years , 
but how wonderful . 
are you close to getting it done ? 
of course there 's still a lot of work to be done , 
and then when you get the shell finished you still have a lot of stuff to do inside , 
are you going to move your whole family over there then ? 
actually i 'm not even sure , 
i may , 
i 'll probably always have a place here in richardson or dallas . 
kind of your getaway place . 
escape . 
but it 's beautiful , 
it 's eastern hardwood forest , 
there are a lot of pine trees , 
but it 's mostly oaks 
how beautiful , 
and it 's pretty flat there ? 
it 's kind of , hilly , 
but , it 's low hills , 
i 've only been to texas once . 
i have two sisters in texas now one in austin , one in dallas , 
and the one in dallas is the one that got me to doing this 
and i thought austin was beautiful 
i liked the hills and the trees , 
it 's really different because that 's the chalk hills down there , limestone hills , 
and you 've always , lived in texas , have you ? 
except for time in service . 
born and raised texan . 
i had never been there , 
that 's pretty neat . 
my sisters both seem to like it pretty well . 
my brother-in-law works for the university in dallas . 
at which one ? 
he 's admissions director . 
. university of texas in dallas . 
it 's just north of me here . 
he 's got a job there 
and this is his first year , 
so , it 's been a real interesting thing for them . 
that 's great . 
but they seem to like it okay . 
i think they 're too far away from me , 
but maybe some day they can get closer , 
we 'll see . 
pretty good trip . 
so what kind of hobbies are you in ? 
i 'm mother of four , 
so basically i 'm just , real busy with my kids right now in sports , 
and we have a little halloween talent show tonight , 
and , i substitute at the schools part-time . 
that 's great . 
i am a travel agent at heart , 
i love traveling and being involved of that and finding out more , 
but , it 's real hard to work in the summers and holidays and weekends when you have four children and a husband , 
so i reluctantly gave that career up and am just substituting at the school , 
so i 've been librarian all this week , which has been real interesting , 
and i 'm enjoying it . 
i 'm around my kids 
and 
that 's pretty easy substituting is n't it ? 
it 's great , 
it 's great , 
and what else do i do , 
i do lots of cross stitching when i have time 
and i enter things in our little state fair , 
and that 's pretty fun . 
that 's great . 
but , actually my hobbies mostly is my sports . tennis , 
i play tennis . 
i love tennis too 
do you ? 
and i ski , 
do you ski ? 
we snow ski . 
we snow ski at mount bachelor mostly in oregon , 
that 's great . 
have you ever been there ? 
wonderful place . 
i 've skied in colorado 
and we usually go to new mexico because it 's a little cheaper . 
where in colorado ? 
i 've been to telluride which is on the west side and copper , 
copper is kind of my favorite up there . breckenridge and keystone . 
i guess those are the only places i 've skied up there . 
i can hardly wait to get up there . 
me , too . 
are you guys getting snow ? 
it is snowing right now . 
we 're to get one to three inches tonight . 
i heard aspen got three feet . 
we are on the dry side of the mountains . 
seattle is only about two and a half hours , 
so of course i 'm a real seahawks fan 
and going over that pass is just a real nightmare . 
i can imagine . 
and we 're on the colder side , 
they 're on the rainy side , 
we 're on the snowy side 
and we ski . 
my children all ski 
and we have been to whistler in canada , which is just a marvelous place , 
whistler and black home is in canada , 
and then we 've gone to sun valley several times , 
that 's just a great place . but not in colorado 
since i went to school , 
what about utah ? 
have n't been there , 
have n't either . 
city , 
always want to go to canada to banff or somewhere like that . 
and your kids all ski ? 
not all of them . 
my kids are all grown . 
but my youngest son is a skier . 
that 's great . 
my boys are at the point where they scare their mommy to death . 
when they 're skiing they 're fearless , 
i do n't do a lot of it . 
i do love to fish . 
good , 
maybe i can learn something . 
i do n't know how much you can learn . 
i 'm not so sure i 'm good at it , 
but i do enjoy doing it . 
do you ? 
it is fun , what little i do . 
i told my husband last night when i had called and they had , told me that this was a topic , 
i said , i can tell them how to fish with a minnow or how to fish with a worm . 
he said , i do n't think that 's the different kinds of fishing they 're talking about . 
i hope it is , 
there 's not a whole lot of different kinds . 
that 's about the only kind i know how to do . 
i do n't do a lot of deep sea fishing , because i get seasick , 
but we have a lot of lakes here in this area 
and i do a lot of fishing for bass . 
we have a couple of lakes in our area that are just filled with good sized bass . 
and then when i get tired of them outwitting me , i fish for catfish 
and we use worms and shiners , which is pretty much like minnows a little bit bigger than minnows , 
and then i also use spinner baits and plastic worms . 
it all depends on what i 'm fishing for , and the time of day . 
it sounds like you do quite a bit of it . 
i do . 
there 's a lake maybe two or three miles from here , 
and it 's very convenient on afternoons when i want to just get away and sit and think . 
fishing 's a good way to do that , 
and i have a lot of friends who like to go fishing . 
do you have a boat ? 
i do n't . 
i have a friend who has a little inflatable raft , 
and we use that sometimes . 
i wish i had a boat , 
but i do n't . 
i think the lakes are probably different in michigan than they are in texas . 
the ones around here are so big , that you can fish off the dock 
but unless you have a boat you ca n't really get into where they call the good fishing holes . 
that 's the same way here , is n't it ? 
is it ? 
my in-laws live on a lake a little bit east of dallas , kind of in the piney woods , 
and the lake is beautiful , 
and i like to go out and stand at the end of the dock and fish , 
but actually catching fish to eat per se , you do n't really do much of that right there . 
i catch a lot of little old perch 
and then the , turtles try to eat up all my bait . 
so it 's so close to the dock that i think all i do is feed them a little bit 
we do n't have a big problem with turtles , 
but it 's kind of fun . 
but we do have a awful lot of snakes in our lakes . 
i would be afraid of that . 
and i ca n't think of a time that i 've been fishing that i have n't run into one or two of them . 
do they ever get on your hook ? 
occasionally i 'll catch an eel on a hook , but never the snakes . 
are they poisonous snakes ? 
we have a lot of cotton mouth , 
so 
they are , definitely 
and they live in little coves that i like to fish in , 
so i seem them swimming by every once in a while . 
i think i 'd be a little bit afraid of those . 
they 're certainly ugly . 
we saw a large snake right off the dock there at my in-laws ' place last year . 
it was probably four inches in diameter or something like that . 
great big snake , 
and of course , it scared the women to death , 
but the men come out and said that 's only a king snake , 
it wo n't really hurt you . 
but it looked so bad 
and it was so big , that it might not would have hurt us , but we sure felt like it was hurting us , just being there . 
definitely . 
but they 're scary looking . 
do you have bass ? 
i think that probably around here people fish for bass and crappie and catfish more than anything else . 
that 's pretty much the same way here . 
they have a lot of bass tournaments . 
we have those . 
inevitably , if i enter one of those , i never catch a thing . 
i just go out there and sit and watch other people do it . 
we 've never entered a tournament or anything . 
we 're not that big into fishing , 
early in the morning there 'll be all the boats going out , 
and they 'll say , there 's a big bass tournament this weekend , 
and all those people are here for the tournament . 
i guess that you 'd call it really sport fishing , 
they 're really into it to try to win . 
definitely . 
certainly here they are . 
but it 's a very relaxing sport to be able to just be out on the water and looking around . 
the peace and calmness is really relaxing . 
it 's a good thing to take a nice book and sit back and read and fish . 
that 's what i do a lot . 
i 've never tried taking a book with me . 
i 'll have to try that one of these days . 
when they first said the subject , my mind went kind of blank . 
i thought , i have n't taken anything back for a long time . 
i have n't either , 
i hate returning things . 
i have a friend who , if she likes something , is n't sure what size somebody might need , will buy it in every color and size and take everything back again . 
it 's a game to her , 
but i do not like to do that . 
i consider it kind of a waste of my time . 
and so i 'm usually pretty careful when i shop 
and i also usually have checked over things if it 's an appliance or something to make sure it has the features in it that i want . 
we 've had one lately a dustbuster plus that we bought , 
and we 've had it for a while , 
but all of a sudden it just was n't working , 
and it looks like there 's a part missing from it . 
my husband opened it up and whatever , 
and of course we do n't have the receipt any more , 
so we ca n't take it back . 
of course , 
but , i think a lot of goods are made not to last real long 
just to get you by five years 
and then you 'll throw it away rather than have it fixed 
we 're a wasteful society , for sure . 
that 's true , 
and you usually get what you pay for . 
we bought some walkie-talkies a couple of years ago for christmas , 
and they were ten dollars , 
and we expected them to work nice for the little kids , 
and they did n't work worth anything . 
we took those back , 
and that 's about that 
all that were taken back in ages . 
i think there can be a lemon in anything 
you pretty well know what you 're getting ahead of time , 
and if you buy a good one , you should n't have too much of a problem with it , 
we had a car once that we tried to have declared a lemon under the lemon law which is extremely difficult to do . 
it 's hard . 
we never could get it declared a lemon , 
and the car would go 
and , without any warning whatsoever , you could be going down the freeway at sixty 
and it would stop 
and we went round and round with the manufacturer and everything , 
and they got it finally semifixed , 
but it was such a hassle 
and it just pertained to that . 
but of all the topics i have had this is kind of the strangest one . 
at first i thought of food because that 's mainly what i buy , it seems like , 
and i still do n't have anything to do there , 
but i think , too , a lot of people do n't buy their warranties either because they know that when it 's that old they 're going to buy a new one , 
i think that 's true , 
and now we generally do n't buy a warranty , because you think at least for the first couple of years , nothing should go wrong with it . 
my husband is really good at fixing things , too , 
so he usually 
and that has saved us thousands of dollars from to mechanic to anything like that 
i do n't know if they 're making them better or not , 
it 's hard to say . 
i think they which makes things break easier , 
but i think the technology is better . 
i think technology is better , 
i 'm not sure . 
i think you 've got a good point with the plastic and that . 
about quality . 
i do n't think necessarily that , things are being made better , 
everything is so automated , 
and things can be made without a human hand ever touching it an awful lot of things , 
and i think that certainly makes a difference back from the time when somebody handcrafted something and had some pride in it . 
people are n't willing to pay those prices very often for a handcrafted something , 
that 's true . 
so , if we get what we deserve . 
i do craft work and sell stuff at shows 
let me just start by asking what you think of this middle east affair we 've got going on ? 
i think that it 's time that we concentrate more on what 's going on within our own borders than what 's going on in the middle east . 
i have to agree with you there . 
i think that for once , we should n't even be at these mid east talks because , with the exception of our hostages , we should n't have too much of a real interest in deciding whose land it is . 
just let these people fight it out 
i agree . 
we 've got so many domestic problems , 
and what does it cost these people over there . 
so how about the soviet union . 
what do you think 's going to happen there . 
the break ups ? 
i think that 's great . 
i 'm glad to see that , 
but again , i do n't want to see us pour a whole lot under any circumstances because , i 'm a believer in the old adage that if somebody earns something it 's worth more to them than if you give it to them , 
and so , i 'm not much in favor of it , 
but i 'm glad to see us advising them 
that does n't seem to cost a whole lot of money . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
but i 'm ready to have a president elected that at least has some sort of a domestic agenda , 
even if it does n't work , at least he is somebody who is working on that problem . 
and i have n't seen that in the last eleven years , 
so they do n't seem to have a clue . 
reagan obviously was n't too concerned with the domestic side of his political affairs . 
i think bush 's kind of followed suit . 
international is important , 
but we 've got a budget deficit that just wo n't go away unless it gets seriously addressed . 
and then there 's the homeless issue , 
and there really is a lot we could be doing stateside without hurting our international aspects or straining any international relations i think , 
and we would n't have to spend the billions and billions of dollars each year that we 're spending . 
i agree . 
once we started economic aid overseas we have really set ourselves up to be sort of the world bank , as far as aid is concerned , 
and i think there 's a limit , 
and we passed it a long time ago . 
i agree . 
we 've been writing off way too many country bad debts . 
that 's another thing i do n't understand is things like selling technology and even military hardware to foreign governments and then forgiving their debt 
to me that just does n't make any sense , as much in debt as we are 
i know it . 
i do n't know . 
i think it 's definitely time for a change , 
but i do n't see anybody , 
i do n't understand , too , why we have to have democrats and republicans , and it 's either one way or the other , 
it seems to be we 're turning into a black and white society , 
you either do it this way 
or you do it that way , 
and there 's no in between 
that 's right , 
you 're either liberal or you 're conservative , 
and it obviously is n't working . 
i think it would n't hurt , 
and i know the independent party 's been trying for years to get a real force in congress , 
but you 're right , 
there 's just too many issues that come up that our senators and our congressmen vote on simply because it 's a democratic issue or it 's a republican issue 
and if they would vote with their conscience and with what their constituents feel , i think we might have a lot more efficient running government and a lot better laws passed . 
i agree with you . 
of course we have the national embarrassment in our state , jessie helms , 
of course it seems to me that every time he opens his mouth , he just lines up people against him 
so , it 's not too often that you see him swaying too many opinions . 
he 's usually on the ninety-eight to two side , 
he 's the one of the two that votes , 
he 's one of the two . 
he 's , very ineffective , i think . 
let 's see , 
senators are in for six years 
and when did you guys vote him into office ? 
unfortunately nineteen ninety . 
you 're stuck . 
we 're stuck with him for a little while longer , 
but unfortunately for him , but maybe fortunately for us , his health is not great , 
you keep up with current events ? 
somewhat . 
somewhat 
not , 
not as well as i would like to probably 
is that right ? 
but that 's the way it goes . 
whereabouts in pennsylvania . 
what ? 
where in pennsylvania ? 
state college , 
i go to penn state . 
do you , 
we 're not supposed to talk about that . 
we 're supposed to talk about current events . 
i 'm a current event junkie . 
so i try to watch the news , 
and i read the newspaper , 
and i like to read time magazine and people magazine to keep up with what 's going on in the world . 
i see . 
what particularly are you interested in ? 
little about everything . 
and then again not everything , 
but i like to know pretty well what 's happening . 
political things do n't interest me a great deal , except i do like to stay informed enough to , feel like i halfway vote intelligently 
just the events that happen around the world interest me . 
stay in touch with it and feel like i know what 's going on . 
i have to say all three of my children , none of them are too interested in current events . 
i see . 
but i always have been 
and i stay up with it . 
but how do you , stay aware of most of the current events . 
newspaper ? t v news , or what ? 
some of both . 
i read the newspapers sometimes 
and i watch c n n , that sort of thing occasionally 
that 's good . 
and i read magazines , and such . 
you stay up with it pretty well , then . 
not that badly 
so i am interested in what 's going on , 
and i 'm particularly interested in certain things of course , like all the news about haiti recently because i 've been down there 
you 've been there 
and . 
you would be interested in it then . 
i follow it , 
i do n't just read everything about it , 
but i 'm always aware of what 's going on like that 
because it 's interesting 
and i do n't know , 
i feel sorry for those people down there , 
they 've just been so terribly mistreated for so many years through papa doc , 
that 's true . 
they 've never really had a good leader , 
he was a terrible tyrant 
and i think it 's been better since he died , 
but it 's still been bad 
i 've read some things about him that he was n't too good himself . 
he did n't mind having people bumped off for certain things . 
but it 's , one of the reasons the u s did n't do more than they did at the time because they were n't all that excited about him , although he 's probably better than a lot of them , 
i see . 
those people are so used to it 
i guess it 's the only thing that works . 
so what do you think about the quality of news coverage in america ? 
i think it 's pretty darned good , 
i think we 're lucky to have as good a coverage as we have 
i really do . 
sometimes they jump on it and go a little to the extreme , 
the media does , 
but , that 's kind of understandable , because of course if you watch it more than once a day it 's the same thing over and over and over and over , 
and i listen to the radio 
so you hear so much , 
you get a little tired of it , 
but then again , so many people only catch it once a day , maybe 
i do n't believe it could be better 
i really do n't . 
i think it always could be better , 
but i , would agree that it 's pretty good . 
i do n't think so . 
i do n't think our news could be better . 
what else could they do to make it better . 
i do n't see anything that they could do . 
i do n't know . 
you always want to think everything can be improved upon 
i understand what you 're saying , 
but by trial and error over the years , i think they got it about as good as they 're going to get it . 
that may be so , 
nothing is perfect . 
i think that i 'm not always satisfied with how deep they dig into things and such . 
that 's true , 
i understand what you 're saying , 
and then again , i understand why they ca n't dig too much deeper , 
that 's why we have c n n . 
c n n has the time to dig deeper . 
what are your hobbies ? 
actually my hobbies now are t shirt making . 
i 'm making t shirts and sweat shirts . 
in fact that 's what i was doing when you called . 
that sounds interesting . 
what kinds of sweat shirts and t shirts do you make ? 
right now i 'm making christmas ones with poinsettias and bears and all that kind of thing . 
i have material that i cut out , 
there 's this stuff called wonder under that you iron it on 
and then you iron that on the t shirt , 
and you paint around it . 
i see . 
so , it 's real fun . 
i started doing it as just something fun to do , 
and now i 'm selling them 
how 's it going ? 
pretty good . 
i just started last week , 
and i sold seven . 
i was n't expecting that , 
that sounds great . 
i guess in my spare time i 'll be making t shirts . 
somebody has to do it , 
that 's right . 
give you a little christmas money , any way . 
that 's correct . 
what are your hobbies ? 
i kind of have hobby fads , i guess . 
when i was growing up i was into coin collecting , 
and that dropped off about the time i hit puberty , 
and then , my hobbies in high school went just to the sports . 
now my latest one is classic cars . 
i had a sixty-six mustang i was rebuilding . 
almost had it done , 
and i went ahead and sold it . 
but it was fun . 
i really enjoyed it . 
how 'd you learn to do that to fix them up ? 
you just get a book that tells you how to do it or what ? 
all i did is i bought the car 
i was just in a supermarket 
basically it was called mustang magazine 
and so i bought it 
and they had some names , some companies that sold mustang parts , 
and i just started ordering some parts 
and basically what i did was , i redid the whole interior . 
i did n't do too much to the engine , because the engine was pretty good , 
but the whole interior and then part of the exterior , 
just kind of do it . 
where 'd you get the car ? 
we lived in south dakota , 
and i bought it up there before i moved down here . 
so it was kind of rusted out there , 
there is n't too much rust on any vehicles down here . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
that sounds neat . 
i guess there really is n't too much to talk about on hobbies . 
let 's see . 
that about covers mine 
and t shirt making about covers yours . 
let 's see , 
i 've done other hobbies . 
i 'm a hobby person . 
i 've always done a lot of craft stuff . 
i always have done needlepoint and cross stitch and all that , 
and , i collect dolls , 
i have a huge collection of dolls which is still in new mexico with my parents . 
in new mexico ? 
from new mexico . 
. let 's see , 
what else ? 
i started collecting music boxes . 
i guess that 's a hobby . 
that is . 
that 's interesting . 
how many music boxes do you have ? 
probably about twenty . 
do they all play different songs 
or do some of them play the same song ? 
they all play different songs . 
that 's neat . 
what 's the most expensive one you bought ? 
the most expensive . 
i do n't know . 
i 've gotten all of them for gifts . 
mumblex bought a few of them . 
i usually get them for christmas gifts and when people go on trips or something . 
that 's interesting . 
it used to be tea spoons , was the thing . 
that 's true . 
i never collected those . 
that 's interesting , music boxes . 
i have dolls from all over too . 
that i started when i was a little girl , 
and i have a lot of dolls . 
people would always bring them when they go to the countries , 
and i did that when i went to europe one summer . 
i bought a doll everywhere we went , 
how was europe ? 
economy . 
it was great , 
it was quick . 
i was in high school , 
and i was in a tour , 
it 's kind of to establish better rapport with the different countries , 
and it was called people to people , 
and we 'd stay in people 's homes , 
and then we got to also tour big cities , 
and i really enjoyed it . 
was that in high school 
or was that a college thing ? 
in was in high school . 
everything was rushed 
i bet . 
everything was an hour or two hours at the louvre things like that where you need the whole day , 
that 's where a camcorder would come in handy . 
that 's true . 
that sounds real neat . 
so you have n't been back to europe since then ? 
i always thought i would , 
but who knows now . 
i got married 
and , maybe some day . 
maybe it 's one of those retirement things . 
there you go . 
he likes it all right . 
he 's been pretty good , because there 's t shirt stuff all over the house . 
does he help out much 
lynn . 
do you have any pets ? 
i have a dog and cat now . 
what are their names ? 
tibby and liberty . 
which is the dog 
and which is the cat ? 
tibby is the dog 
and liberty is the cat . 
wife and i , we have two cats . 
one 's real nice , 
she 's pretty wild . 
. ours are pretty calm . 
are they just house pets ? 
that 's what ours are too . 
our cat we got from the pound the night she was going to be put to sleep . 
so that 's why we call her liberty . 
that 's a nice story . . 
do you want to hear about my other animals i 've had ? 
i 've had a skunk 
i 've had a burmese python , 
i 've had rats , 
i 've had mice 
let 's see , 
i 've had gerbils , 
i had a son that was an animal lover . 
so at one point i had a snake , skunk , dog and cat running loose in the house . 
the skunk was it kind of like a cat to have around the house ? 
it was litter trained 
and we had it perfumed 
and it was very aggressive . 
but all three of them , dog , cat and skunk , used to chase each other all through the house . 
and the only thing we have with the skunk , he was very , very protective of his territory being the sofa and the blanket on the sofa . 
nobody came near it when he was there . 
i had a dog one time , 
and he chased after a skunk and got sprayed 
so we had to give him a tomato juice bath , and get him cleaned up , 
ours would still back up to the dog or cat when he got mad and try to perfume them , 
but the glands had been removed 
but i suppose it was still in the instinct of them to back up and get ready . 
one other question we had is , why do you have pets ? 
why , i do n't know , 
i think they 're kind of nice to have , 
i do n't know , 
when they sit up on your lap and stuff like that , just kind of enjoyable to have , 
i do n't know , 
something giving you some affection as well . 
i always said if i died i 'd come back as a dog . 
what do you think ? 
that 'd be the best way to be . 
do you like big dogs or little dogs ? 
we had a german shepherd 
and he had dysplasia 
and he had it for about three or four years where we just about had to lift him and carry him every place he went . 
so , when he died , we got a little one . 
but our shepherd was almost thirteen years old , 
almost cruel for him to walk . 
he could n't get up , 
he could n't walk , 
he was a hundred and twenty pounds , 
so it was a chore . 
so we said the next time around we 'd get something little that if something happened , it would be easier to carry . 
and then we 've had three cats in our married life , 
and we 've got a calico now . 
we 've got a calico cat too . 
do you ? 
she 's the nice one . 
we used to live in an apartment 
and our cats never went outside , 
but the neighbors used to let their dogs out , 
and our neighbors were kind of slimy , 
and our cats wound up getting fleas from the apartment that we were in 
so , we had to flea bath them 
and it was an experience that they did n't enjoy at all . 
do n't even talk to me , 
when i was single i had gone away for the weekend , 
and my husband , then fianc3e , was to keep my cat , 
and he let her out , 
and my house was loaded with fleas , 
you walked in 
and your legs were just black . 
and we had such a time , and never got the cat back . 
i found it in the street . 
tell me some about your camping experiences , carolyn . 
i have gone to girl 's camp a few times , as a chaperon or a leader , whatever 
and i enjoy camping . 
we have a tent , 
and we 've gone , even with our family a few times out camping and have a camp stove , 
i guess my biggest memory is when we froze to death . 
we just did n't take enough blankets and whatever . 
where do you go camping at around here ? 
we went camping at lake bonham , which is pretty close here . , 
we went fairly early in the season for this area , which is probably april is when we went , 
and it got really cold at night , 
and of course we were close enough that we could go back and get some more blankets and things in the morning , 
what activities do you do when you 're camping ? 
we take little nature hikes 
and , we take along games that we can play with the kids , and just that kind of stuff . 
usually try to have occasionally a camp fire at night and roast the marshmallows and what all . 
that sounds like fun . 
i grew up in south dakota , up in the black hills 
and so we used to go camping , 
my dad would take us , 
there was four of us kids , 
he 'd take us , 
and we 'd all go camping , my dad and my mom and the kids , 
and it was always fun , 
because what i always remember is , my dad would let us pick our camp spot 
and he 'd always tell us look for a nice flat little area where we can pitch our tents , 
and it always had to be somewhere near a river so we could go fishing , 
and hopefully we 'd catch our supper , 
but we never did 
but it was always fun . 
mom was always prepared 
and she 'd bring along something , because tradition had it we would never catch anything , 
so we always had , something along to eat , 
but then we 'd roast marshmallows , 
and it was always an enjoyable experience . 
about nineteen eighty-two i moved from rapid city in the black hills , 
i crossed the state to aberdeen , 
and there 's no hills , 
it 's flat , 
and then i was in high school , 
and couple of my high school friends and i , we 'd go camping out by a river , of course , and go fishing , 
but by then , of course , i was able to catch some things , 
but , it was always fun . 
it was a different experience camping in the hills versus camping just by a river 
in the hills we would do like you folks did , would take the nature hikes and look for animals , 
in the hills , you can see quite a few different animals , 
go ahead . 
we used to live in utah 
and of course , there 's lots of mountains around there to camp in , and streams and stuff . 
that 's a great place to go camping , 
and the hiking is just really great . 
hike up those mountains is just really fantastic . . 
are there any mountains or big rocks a person could hike around this area . 
i 'm not acquainted with any , 
there 's woods and things out in east texas tyler area , 
there 's a tyler state park that 's really a nice camping area , 
but it 's just a lot of trees , 
i do n't know of any place in texas that has really big mountains . 
the one in tyler , has it been pretty commercialized ? 
it 's not too bad . 
they have screened in areas , 
they 're not really cabins , i would n't say , 
i guess they could call them that , 
but they 're more just a screened in camping area whatever , 
they 're not bad . 
helps keep the pests out , i suppose . 
i do n't know if i can rate camping , 
but it sure beats driving a thousand miles , to find a mountain , i guess . 
that 's right . 
i take it you have n't done a whole lot of camping in this area . 
we just moved down in june . 
i see . 
you 're just trying to get over the culture shock still . 
i 'm still trying to find my way around . 
if i can get on central from anywhere , i 'm happy . 
really the ideal times to camp in this area are early spring , and , in the fall . 
what do you do on your yard ? 
typical lawn stuff . 
saint augustine with a little bermuda mixed in in some of the sunny areas 
in fact , i did n't even fertilize it this year , 
i just mowed it , 
and i mow it with a mulch mower so the particles fall down 
comes back in the yard 
so you do n't have any one do your yard . 
you do it yourself ? 
i do it myself . 
we do too . 
have a lot of people trying to do it for me . 
is n't that the truth . 
a flyer 's on every door every day . 
i need the exercise , 
so what the heck . 
that 's right . 
my husband does the same thing , 
he does the yard , 
and he wants me to learn how to work the lawn mower , 
but i keep putting off learning . 
you 've got the right idea . 
that 's right . 
but i had recently gone out and planted mums . 
we had decided to paint the front of the house about three weeks ago , 
and so while my husband was painting i went out and bought about fifty dollars worth of mums over at calloway 's 
and put out yellow and bronze 
and they 're just gorgeous , 
and so then last week my mom comes in town , 
and she says those are going to die just the first frost . 
she said , you should have done pansies . 
and i went , now you tell me . 
and we went out and covered them with a sheet , 
and they did okay that first night . 
but the second night we were at the movies and did n't do it , 
so i guess i 've lost them . 
i have n't gone out to check yet . 
i do n't blame you . 
i would n't want to look at them . 
listen , 
but the worst problem we 've had here with this grass was about the third year we were here . 
i guess it was about four years ago . 
and we did not know in august to put down whatever it is for grub worms . 
and the next spring in that march , every time we would go out and just try to walk on the grass or reach down to pull a weed , we 'd have big whole patches come up . 
have you ever seen it what grub worms do ? 
and we pulled up almost half of our yard just by raking it , 
it would just come off in the rake , down to the dirt . 
so we had to go out and resod the whole thing with squares and wet it and put it down and rope it off and everything . 
it took a lot of money and a lot of time , 
so the most careful thing we do on our yard every august is put down that diazinon . 
you think that 's what it was . 
we found them 
we found them . 
we dug under there about an inch 
and you could see them . 
they 're real fat little white things , 
and they said they turn into black bugs in the spring 
and some people call them may beetles . 
june bugs is what i 'd heard them called , 
so occasionally i find them in the flower beds . 
they said that every yard has some 
but it was a preponderance of them that caused our problem . 
so that 's the number one thing we do , whether we fertilize or anything else , just because we got burned so badly before . 
i had some of that problem , 
but mine was freeze . 
that too , 
two years ago , or last christmas 
is that what you 're talking about ? 
i 'm still replacing that in the back , especially , under the trees 
kind of slow , and very expensive . 
i caught wolfe with one of the sales where they have those big blocks for fifty cents , 
and i bought about twenty of them . 
i guess you did too . 
it 's what they 've done in the spring or the fall . 
that was late , 
because i started to say , there 's different times they say it 's okay to do it . 
that was september , i think . 
and i had to water it 
keep it damp . 
out here we do n't have as many trees in plano , 
we 're over by collin creek mall , 
but a lot of the shrubbery that we have in the front , like the pittosporum all died , 
and all those variegated things died . 
so we pretty much go with that dwarf yaupon and that yaupon holly , 
and they just live , 
they 're pretty tough , 
you can stand those . 
pittosporum is kind of borderline here 
and usually it 'll do pretty well , 
but every once in a while we get one of these really cold deals 
and it zaps it . 
wax leaf ligustrum is the same way . 
same way , 
they warned me of that one finally . 
and i said you need to either read neal sperry 's book before you shop or get a reputable nursery , because lot of places are just trying to sell whatever was pretty out there , 
and we did n't know the difference . 
and every year we learn one more thing that we did n't know before . like about these mums . 
next year , i 'll do pansies . 
your list is growing , 
and my backyard , we had it really nice , 
and then my husband wanted a labrador puppy , 
i guess he 's three now , 
so the first summer he was here he dug up all of my bushes and plants and brought them to the front door and the back door and laid them on the patio . 
as long as he wo n't damage it , fine , 
and if there 's anything he 'll hurt , we just do n't put it out there any more . 
kind of cuts your possibilities for the flower beds , 
very much , 
you did . 
it did pretty well , 
it 's on the apron of the parkway out behind the garage 
and our garages come in from the alley 
so do ours , 
and it 's a little piece of land over there . 
what did you grow ? 
i had tomatoes and , peppers , 
and i had okra , 
that is amazing . 
and by the fence i had cucumbers , which did n't do real well 
they kind of came out looking like gourds . 
put them in a salad , though , 
and you say , i made it though , 
at least it 's mine . 
but i had squash , 
i had zucchini and yellow crook neck squash , 
my personal opinion , i do n't mind paying taxes necessarily . 
i just sometimes wonder if our money is being used in the best way . 
and that 's all tax money . 
when you figure out how many politicians and each one getting that much , it 's just billions of dollars 
that is just being thrown away . 
and then when you read about that they 're spending all the money on these studies that have no relevance whatsoever , 
that kind of ticks you off , too . 
but somebody was telling me the other day that they heard some senator say that what we 're paying , it 's not that we mind paying taxes , it 's that we 're paying too much for a lousy government . 
and i tend to agree with that . 
i 'm not really into what they 're doing per se , 
and i think there 's just too many levels of bureaucracy . 
i think it can be managed by less levels . 
i work with the state , 
and any time there is a budget cut or crunches , it 's always the small guy that gets hurt . 
it 's never the person that 's making a hundred thousand there . 
it 's always the person that 's making the least amount , 
and sometimes we 're running around there . 
i see these , supervisors running around having meetings . 
i really do n't know what they do . 
i sometimes wonder , are they really doing anything , 
i think we 're going to see a streamlining in the government . 
i do n't know what level , or how long it will take for the public in general to start saying , this is too much . 
we 're not going to pay any more , 
we 're not going to pay for this , 
and you 're out . 
i think we 're starting to see it a little bit now , 
but i think i do n't know what kind of input we 're going to get from the public and how they 're going to go about doing it . 
because i think we 're just getting taxed way too much . 
right now we 're getting taxed probably around thirty-five percent , or more . 
and that 's me not making a whole lot of money . 
they got so many hidden taxes , that it 's really hard to figure out how much you are paying , because , go to a grocery store , something like that , and you 're paying a little tax here 
gas , i do n't know about you guys , 
but there 's probably at least about twenty-five to thirty cents of different taxes on our gas . 
and you do n't realize , 
we got a sales tax . 
our sales tax is eight percent , 
and i do n't know what our gas tax is . 
i think it 's somewhere around twenty five cents a gallon . 
so they 're hitting us up , 
and they may not raise it federally as much one year , 
but then they 'll raise it somewhere in the state or the sales tax or property tax or whatever . 
it 's just you can see that your money is just not going that far . 
i know with reagan , they say no new taxes , 
but they changed the deductions on you , 
and that just raises your taxes , 
they just get it a different way 
so to me , it did raise my taxes . 
you could tell just by how much money you have left over , 
and all of a sudden it 's eating me alive . 
i heard someone say that if they would just , if they cut back by so much percentage , it could throw back about six hundred dollars , on an average , six hundred dollars , 
i 'll let you start this time . 
how much do you like lawn and garden work ? 
even though it 's totally out of my degree training , i 've been working , in the horticultural aspect the last fifteen , twenty years , 
for goodness sakes . 
what do you do ? 
i work for the state as a grounds keeper . 
that 's interesting . 
so , at this time of the year are you doing much garden work ? . 
mostly snow removal , which we 've had a lot of , 
but i do n't know , 
i guess growing up on the farm and that , i 've always had a big interest . 
when i have an area to do , i always had a big garden and enjoy working on lawns and everything . 
i love to work outside , really , 
and i enjoy flowers and stuff . 
i do n't do a whole lot of it at this exact point in my life because i have two teenage boys , 
and so they do all the lawn care , 
but i still take care of the flower beds and things like that . 
i was even planning to go out and to dig up some hibiscus plants that will not make it through the winter here , but were planted in the ground since last spring 
and i was going to dig them up for a friend and for some starters for me , 
and about five days ago , we had a freeze down to about twenty-three degrees or something 
so the hibiscus plants no longer exist . 
that 's terrible . 
and i really feel bad about it , 
it 's a plant that we 've had for probably twenty-five years that these were cuttings off of . 
so , they 're all gone at this point . 
gardening in texas is really interesting , though . 
i grew up in illinois 
and texas is just so hot in the summer and so dry , 
everyone that lives in town and has yards practically has watering system . 
and so with that our lawns do stay pretty nice all summer , if you water . 
but in the winter , we have bermuda grass 
and in the winter it turns as brown as a grocery sack 
and i just think it 's ugly . 
when i go back home to my parents in illinois in the winter their grass is fairly green . 
that 's one aspect of a lot of those grasses , 
they go dormant . 
i think the saint augustine and centipede grass is another one you have quite a bit of down there 
those two . 
some people have fescue that stays green all winter , 
but they really have a heck of a time keeping it going in the middle of the summer . 
they have to water an incredible amount . 
but those lawns look nice during the winter , 
but they almost stick out like a pretty thumb . 
i know my folks live in arizona there , 
and they just grow rocks 
and . that 's their gardening there . 
i guess as long as you can have some grass there . 
so . i know i was in houston when i was working for a company once , 
and we were taking care of lawns out there , 
and that particular year they had just tons of rain , 
it was raining continuously . 
and then , i know with all that moisture , a lot of the lawns get a lot of disease problems . 
that 's true . 
houston is a lot wetter than dallas area , 
that 's where plano is , 
and just humidity just all the time , 
it 's an awfully lot more humid . 
are you able to get sometimes a double crops of certain things in your garden ? 
i think people do . 
i do n't have a vegetable garden , 
i guess i never have here , actually , 
but , 
we have neil sperry talks on the radio , 
what 's your favorite t v show ? 
i used to like st . elsewhere . 
that 's one of my old favorites . 
i 'm being beeped , 
so i 'll just ignore it . 
and now , i did like thirty something 
my daughter says nine oh two one oh . 
we like that one . 
that 's one of my favorites . 
and how old are you ? 
i 'm twenty-eight . 
so you 're little bit younger than i am , 
but 
i 'm over forty , 
and i like it . 
i think it 's wonderful . 
it 's a good show . 
i like murphy brown and designing women , too . 
all of our kids are in sports , 
and i hardly ever watch t v , 
but that 's one that we watch . 
and then sunday nights we watch life goes on . 
i like that , 
that 's a good show , too . 
very good . 
did you see the one on sunday ? 
i did miss that sunday , 
i did n't . 
that one kid that becca likes he has aids . 
it 's a good episode . 
the new character on there did . 
all the way to north carolina . 
what time is it there ? 
it is twenty minutes to nine . 
i 'm twenty minutes to six here . 
three hours difference . 
what else do you like ? 
let 's see , 
i like a lot of different shows . 
let 's see , 
i like murder , she wrote . 
i never watched that ever in my entire life . 
and matlock is another good one i watch . 
then during daytimes i like all my children . 
a small bowl will be plenty . 
that 's mine . 
a small bowl will be better because it 's pretty fattening . 
talk to my daughter . 
all my children , 
i 've watched that for about twelve years . 
i 'm sure i watched it for more than that probably . 
twenty something . 
i quit watching general hospital when leslie got killed . 
so that was a long time ago . 
i used to watch it , in high school and college when laura 's mother got killed . 
she was my favorite character on there . 
i read the reason they killed her off was because they could n't settle a contract , 
and i said if they 're going to do that to her , i wo n't watch it . 
that 's great . 
i do like all my children , 
i do n't know . 
i like the people on it , i guess . 
i like it . 
i just wish they 'd bring some of the old characters back . 
tad 's going to come back , i bet , 
do you think ? 
i 'm sure he will . 
he 'll come back , show up at just the right moment . 
just for a brief visit or whatever , because it never has been resolved with palmer remarrying , and everything , 
daisy , pops in once in a while , 
and , i forgot about nina and cliff . 
cliff 's on the young and the restless now . 
he is . 
so he 's out for good . 
he 's out for good . 
did they marry ? 
nina and cliff ? 
that 's how they left the show , but not in real life . 
now she 's married to some guy in new york , 
and she 's happily married 
and that 's the reason she left the show . 
i guess she wanted a private life . 
i watch it maybe twice a month , 
so , i do n't watch it everyday like i did when i had babies . 
i watch . 
because i play lots of tennis 
and i 'm gone a lot , 
so , i do n't get to watch , 
i watch it everyday , religiously . 
i videotape it when i have to miss it . 
i used to be like that . 
i 'm that way about a lot of different shows . 
i 'm that way about murphy brown , designing women . 
do n't they have a new chick on there instead of what 's her name ? 
there 's two new characters on there . 
there 's jan hooks from saturday night life . 
i do n't know if you know her or not . 
that 's a show i like . 
and then , the blond headed girl that used to be on newhart . 
i do n't like her on it , 
i never have liked her , 
i just know which one she is . 
she 's taken suzanne 's part , 
and then jan hooks has taken charlene 's part . 
charlene was delta burke ? 
charlene was jean smart , the blond headed . 
i never watch that one either . 
i really do n't watch a whole lot of t v , 
just on sunday nights , 
life goes on comes on about the time that we eat dinner , 
and my whole family 's home , because i do n't allow the kids out on sunday night because they 've got to go to bed and go to school the next day , 
and so we sit around and eat popcorn 
and then we watch america 's funniest home videos . 
those are always pretty cute . 
murder , she wrote comes on opposite of that , 
and so , 
i pick nights pretty much so on t v that i watch different networks , 
but beverly hills nine oh two one oh , i watch it religiously . 
we like that real well . 
be sure to watch it tomorrow night because somebody 's getting killed on it . 
i know . 
the kids already know who it is , 
i do n't know who it is , though , 
who is it ? 
ask them . 
let me ask nicole . 
nicole . 
this is donna donahue . 
ready to get started ? 
i think so . 
sort of an interesting topic since i just got back from lunch here . 
what did you have for lunch ? 
i 'm an officer in the air force , 
and we went to the officers ' club for a little mexican food today . 
that 's interesting . 
so our topic is food today , 
if you 're having a dinner party , what would you serve ? 
do you want me to go first ? 
if i was having a dinner party i would probably have some fruit to start with with some apples sliced up and maybe some cheddar cheese and crackers and grapes and probably serve maybe some wine and beer and maybe have some salsa and chips around and peanuts . 
and then i usually have a little theme when i have a dinner party 
if it was greek night or something maybe on the barbecue we 'd put cubes of lamb or lamb used for greek . a shish kabob , and mushrooms and tomatoes and onions 
and then we 'd have a big greek tossed salad kind of like a caesar salad . 
and let 's see what else . 
maybe some rolls and some rice or something like that . 
how does that sound ? . 
when is the party here ? . 
that would take some planning 
i do n't know 
it 's not a question of capability here to do something like that . 
it 's just there 's no motivation . 
that 's right . 
i want to throw some charcoal on the grill and throw a steak on there and some baked potatoes and stuff like that 
that sounds good too . 
i have three kids 
so when we have friends over i have my oldest kind of baby-sit for the little two younger ones upstairs 
and usually we just have very plain kind of not very interesting meals . pizza and that all 
so once in a while when we do something like that it 's kind of fun , 
but it 's not a regular thing . 
are we supposed to talk for about five minutes , 
that 's what they are shooting for here . 
let 's see 
i live on a lake here , 
and then during the summertime it 's real nice to be able to entertain outdoors , 
that 's a little more a casual thing . 
but in the wintertime it 's not bad too because then i 've got a fireplace and a nice , nice house and all that 
a , really good place to do entertaining like that . 
that sounds wonderful . 
i just have n't really tried a whole lot 
but i do n't know , 
let 's see . 
one time i did have a dinner party . 
i had a gang of people over and kind of made a fried chicken thing and biscuits , and kind of southern food even though i 'm up here in new york , 
you are in new york right now ? 
i 'm in texas . 
i did n't know this was from all over the whole country . 
i see . 
it is . 
and i 'm originally from long island . 
no kidding ? 
and now where are you in new york ? 
upstate . 
upstate . 
rome . 
in griffins air force base . 
is that where you are originally from around there ? 
i was born in buffalo , 
and been all over the place . 
that 's interesting . 
let 's see . 
sometimes when i have a dinner party i 'll have , everybody bring something , 
and that 's real interesting because then you get different kinds of foods and new recipes 
and sometimes somebody will bring something that you really like , 
and get the recipe from them or whatever . 
and we are just getting interested in mexican food 
because here in texas they have lots of , really good mexican restaurants 
do you know what a fajita is ? 
i 've been down to texas a few times , and had the pleasure of their good mexican , cuisine down there . 
they have some delicious , delicious things , 
since i always make chicken burritos and just take chicken breasts 
and you boil them , 
maybe four chicken breasts , 
and you boil them until they are cooked . 
maybe thirty minutes 
and then you debone them and kind of shred them up into the meat that has gotten cooled 
and you take little bit , maybe two tablespoons of butter in a big frying pan . and chop up some onion and put in oregano and salt , 
what ? 
do you want to start ? 
it does n't matter . 
we 're discussing the capital punishment , i believe . 
you are right . 
i suppose i should have , 
i am pro capital punishment except that i do n't like the way it 's done . 
i guess , i hate to see anyone die 
but i guess these people that go around and kill children and women and everything else without any remorse i do n't think they deserve to live and be supported by us the rest of their lives . 
i agree . 
capital punishment is necessary in many cases 
it 's not a deterrent , 
or our jails would not be so full . 
there would n't be so many people in death row . 
i think it needs to be something a throwback to where they did a public execution where it 's visible . 
something not gruesome but something more where people know that it was a deterrent and it was equal for all people . 
if you committed a certain crime , you were going to receive a death penalty 
and it was going to happen to you . 
no stays of execution . 
no loopholes , 
and even that i do n't really know if that would help . 
i think a lot of these people do it mainly because , of t v 
notoriety . 
the double reason 
they see it being done on t v 
and also the fact of notoriety . 
they become well known . 
they are almost like a big star . 
but they know that their chances of actually receiving the death penalty are minimal . 
they know that they will probably be out in ten to twelve years . 
that they are going to write a book . 
they are going to go on talk shows 
that 's a reward for a heinous crime rather than having them pay the penalty which is forfeiture of their life . 
you take a life you give yours . 
that 's for sure . 
there 's exceptions to the rule 
if it 's an accidental taking then you look at that 
but most of these people that down right go right and do it out of pure pleasure i do n't like to see that . 
it is a deterrent in the sense that that person will never do it again . 
they will . 
not if he 's killed he ca n't , do it again . 
that 's correct , 
if he indeed receives the death penalty and it is executed . 
the death penalty . 
but the chances are not great that that will happen . 
but there 's a greater chance that he 'll be back out on the streets in twelve years . 
i guess i 'm also looking at beyond even that . 
i guess i been thinking about it 
and i do n't have a definite opinion 
but repeat crimes maybe not the more mild ones but more severe ones especially on armed robbery and stuff where they been taking from elderly people , and not just taking the money but beating them half to death . 
that 's right . 
just for pleasure too 
and i guess you 've got to look at something like that . 
do they deserve to remain on this earth too ? 
you could carry it to that if they are a repeat offender 
and you know that as soon as you let them out on the streets they are going to do this . 
unfortunately the way our system of jurisprudence is set up you only receive the death penalty for capital crimes , 
you would n't be able to under our system . 
china and a few other countries have a little different view of that . 
you get caught with dope there and you die , period . 
there is no appeals . 
what type of things do you feel would invade your privacy every day ? 
. i do n't like it when people listen to my phone conversations , like if they 're outside my door while i 'm talking in my room , or when people look through my things in my bedroom . 
that 's right . 
that is really an invasion of privacy . 
i find it very annoying when i 've worked all day to come in and my phone to ring constantly , 
does that happen in your part of the country ? 
i come home 
definitely . 
and i am trying to get a few things done 
and i ca n't do anything but answer the telephone . 
some evenings are worse than others , 
but i wish i could put a stop to it , 
but i do n't know what to do to stop it . 
even we used to have a sign on our door that said no soliciting , 
they would think it did n't mean them , i guess . 
i guess not , 
everybody but me . 
do you live at home with your parents ? 
so your privacy is invaded probably by other members of the family . 
mostly . 
what can you do to stop that ? 
i do n't know . 
i am used to it now , 
but sometimes it sort of gets to me 
but there is not much i can really do . 
just have to live with it , i guess . 
try to remember to respect their privacy , and maybe they will respect yours 
i do n't know . 
do you have brothers ? 
i do , 
but they do n't live at home . 
i had two younger brothers , 
and they nearly drove me crazy listening to telephone conversations 
i used to do that though because i was the youngest , 
i would pick up the phone and listen to theirs . 
i would get in the bathroom and lock the door so maybe they could n't hear me , 
and then they would go get on the other extension 
and i could hear them , 
but i could n't get them to hang up . 
but i stopped doing that a long time ago , 
and they still do it to me . 
and when you 're on a conversation instead of walking off or just making themselves busy , they 'll stand there and listen to what you say until you hang up . 
this lady does that to me at work when i 'm taking an order or something , 
and she 'll just sit there and listen like i 'm doing something wrong , 
and she just started 
and , she is nice 
but it gets annoying when they stand right over you watching everything you do . 
let 's see , 
i ca n't think of anything else i 'd really consider an invasion of privacy other than the phone solicitors . 
about the only thing that really bothers me 
i do n't have that many people coming to my door . 
occasionally we 'll have a person here or there , but not as many as the phone calls , 
and i guess that 's really the thing that really bugs me the most . 
our kids in our neighborhood used to bother me , 
but they 've all gotten grown up now 
and we live in a neighborhood where there is not any little kids to bother me , since mine are all grown up , 
but . what else would be an annoyance ? 
i guess traffic could be an annoyance . 
especially when you 're in a hurry . 
do you have a lot of traffic in your area ? 
it can get busy , 
some days it 's real , real bad here , 
and you would like to , feel like it 's an invasion of privacy because you ca n't even ride down the road without people all the way around you . 
i 've traveled quiet a bit , 
and i 've been through dallas , texas . 
it 's pretty busy . 
it really is , 
and pretty noisy . 
it really is . 
i live right on a main thoroughfare , 
so when i first moved here i probably did consider that an invasion of privacy 
because at first you 'd hear a lot of noise , especially at night when you go to bed . 
and every time a fire truck or anything went down the road , i would wake up , 
but i guess i have gotten used to it because i do n't even hear it anymore . 
i suppose you do . 
and i just close it out , i guess , 
because i do n't remember waking up in several years at night when i 'd hear a fire truck go by . 
i think they would probably have to pull into my drive before it bothered me . 
i am a real solid sleeper though 
so that probably would n't bother me . 
i 'd sleep right through it . 
they would have to chop down the door and get you out , i guess . . 
it takes a lot . 
let 's see . 
what else is an invasion ? 
i had an old boyfriend who looked through my notes one time . 
i was mad because those were mine , 
did you have has name all over them ? 
it was a letter from a girlfriend of mine . 
i was upset because those were mine , 
that was yours . 
i thought he would respect me more than that , to look through my things and not trust me , 
so that was upsetting . 
i was mad about that and my privacy there . 
have you seen a new movie lately ? 
i am a student 
and i have been actually watching more movies on video , than being able to go out to see movies at the theater . 
i want to see the fisher king and , catch robin hood . 
i have n't seen either one of those . 
what are some of the shows that you have been able to rent though ? 
let 's see . 
i 'm trying to just think of the ones that have come on . 
white palace which i thought was over hyped , recently . 
you 're catching me at mind 's end here . 
what have you seen recently ? . 
maybe you have seen dances with wolves . 
what did you think of that one ? 
enjoyed that quite a bit . 
i thought the cinematography was excellent . 
though it tended to be a little one sided it was good . 
it was believable . 
i just moved down , in fact , from south dakota in june , 
and that 's when the movie was filmed , 
and when the movie came out , we went , 
my dad lives in the state capital , which is pierre 
and it was filmed right outside of pierre . 
in fact , the big buffalo herd scene , that was a live scene . 
there 's a guy that has got a buffalo farm , 
and he has got over ten thousand head of buffalo 
and , my dad has got a little plane , 
we flew over it all looked at the buffalo , 
it was really neat . 
so we are watching the movie in the movie theater in pierre 
and just every time i would start to get into the movie , and it was getting good someone in the crowd would yell , there 's john red eagle 
or they 'd start recognizing people . 
i think i enjoyed it more when i watched it on video cassette than i did in the movie theater because my attention would get diverted every time they 'd say that . 
i 'd go which one could that be , 
scope . 
but i thought it was a good film . 
but you are right , 
i think it was very one sided . 
it was , 
but it 's a side that has n't been told . as far as telling it from the indians as the good guys and the white men as the bad guys . 
i really thought about all the westerns that we have seen for years and years , 
and it 's just , shoot the indians , 
and they are always the savages . 
in fact , i was watching wild wild west last night 
and , it was a similar situation with the iroquois indians attacking an army fort . 
but it was an interesting movie . 
have you seen pretty woman ? 
i thought that was a good show . 
that was a good movie . 
it was just kind of a get away movie . 
kind of , 
it did n't have any real social bearing 
and it was n't really a comedy , 
but it was an enjoyable movie . 
it was kind of like the star wars series just something a little different , yet believable . 
i do n't know , 
i sure did have a mind lock about the movies i 've seen . 
but 
i 've seen pretty woman and dances with wolves , 
are you much of a star trek fan , 
are you going to see this next one that 's coming out ? 
have you seen the rest ? 
i think i 've missed one . 
i 'm not sure , 
but i think i 've missed one . 
i actually went to the star trek twenty fifth anniversary marathon that happened about a month ago , 
and they showed all five in a row . 
was that here in dallas ? 
they had it everywhere , 
every major city had one theater that did it 
because we had one here in dallas . 
and they did it in houston , 
they did it everywhere . 
and it was really good to see all the movies and how the story developed , 
and the thing that i did n't realize is that if you watch the movies in a row time wise they happen one after another and just no time between them , 
but you can watch the characters develop , 
i guess it 's a subject i have n't thought too much about . 
i do n't know if there 's so much wrong with the public schools as much as , we 're expecting too much out of them . 
that might be a lot to do with it . 
i 'm from mississippi , 
i 'm not sure where you 're from . 
minnesota , wisconsin . 
minnesota , 
a lot of it in mississippi here has got to do with funding . 
problems with our educational system , a lot of it 's due to money . 
and they 're trying to spend money where we do n't have it 
and there 's a lot of things we need that we just ca n't afford . 
it is getting very expensive to run schools , 
it is . 
they 've got computers now that you got to train on . 
there 's just so much more and less money to do it with . 
that 's true . 
and a lot of it has to do with salaries too , speaking of money . 
cause if you ca n't pay the right people they 're not going to get the people that can do a good job . 
talking on a lot of the things as far as the discipline in the schools , i think they 're expecting schools to discipline the kids 
and i think it should go right back to the parents . 
i feel the same way . 
a lot has to do with how the kids were raised at home . 
and then when the kids get to school , they try to take away a lot of things that they can do to discipline the kids . 
they 've so severely limited what disciplinary action you can do . 
i know when i was going to school it was n't uncommon for a teacher to strike a student that was misbehaving . 
they do that now and they could probably lose their job . 
lose their job and big lawsuit and all that . 
i feel that 's got a lot to do with it . 
people are n't as afraid of misbehaving as they used to be . 
it seems that 'd be a subject that i do n't have much to say on . 
our governor that just got thrown out of office was trying to be real big on education 
but he was n't . 
and a lot of his problems had to do with money mostly . 
if you have more money it 's just logical that you can provide a better school system . 
and , unfortunately , there 's not many places to get that money . 
i know one of my physics professors at college has addressed this . 
that most of the teachers at the elementary and high school level are n't scientists , 
they 're teachers . 
and they may not know a lot about what they 're teaching . 
where they may have just had a teaching major and then had some social studies courses 
and they 're trying to teach social studies . 
and they do n't know a lot about that . 
my professor was a physics professor 
and he said a lot of teachers teaching physics today have no background of physics at the high school level . 
so therefore , they 're teaching from a teacher 's point of view and not from a physicist point of view . 
and that causes a lot of trouble . 
i do n't know , 
maybe they should sit back and kind of decide on where the money 's best spent . 
i know in a lot of cases different districts like to have nice fancy schools . 
and maybe they should be a little more concerned with paying the right people to teach and be satisfied with maybe a little older school . 
because here in the town i went to high school , 
one of the high schools was blown away by a tornado . 
so when they rebuilt that school , they had a top of the line , high tech school there . 
and the other schools were built back in maybe the fifties or early sixties 
and then when the evaluation committees came through , they praised the school that had been rebuilt while they were down grading all these other ones . telling them what they needed to do to fix up this building 
and so it kind of would make you think that we 'd all be better off if all the schools were blown away by tornadoes and we had to rebuild them . 
i know where i came from . we did n't have a very rich community 
and high school that i went to was very old 
and as far as i know , it 's still there . 
they 've expanded on it 
but they 've never built a new one 
and it 's probably fifty , sixty years old or better 
and i do n't foresee them building a new one for a long time because they ca n't afford it . 
i guess i 've always kind of liked golf . 
i worked on a golf course at one time 
and that 's how i picked up golf . 
and i do n't know 
it 's just kind of a challenging game . 
it sure is . 
i play at least three times a week . 
i 'm on it , 
i have n't gotten the chance lately though to play . 
i 'm trying to get back into it . 
so i got to start all over again . 
it 's not like riding a bicycle . 
you do tend to , forget . 
i 'm one of those rare left-handed golfers . 
and i do enjoy playing . 
what is your handicap ? 
right now it 's three . 
i was down at about four or five quite awhile ago . 
it 's probably up there to twenty now if i to start again . 
if you play with some consistency though , you can get it right back down . 
i have got to try and get out there . 
i know with our long winters i enjoy watching it . 
i do n't know if it 's just because i like the game or i just like to see the warm weather . 
we can usually play here year around . 
sometimes in january it 's not too comfortable to play . 
but there is usually two or three days in the week that you can get out there and play , 
and i 'm pretty much addicted to golf , 
so . i get out there one way or the other . 
that 's the problem out here with the long layovers with the winter 
you almost have to relearn every spring to get back out . 
it 's a good game though . 
it 's very challenging 
and the reason i like it so much is because i 'm essentially playing against myself . 
that 's the way i look at it . 
i play in a lot of groups 
but they keep score between themselves 
but i really do n't care . 
i go out 
and each shot i say , this is what i 'm going to try to do 
and then i see how close i can come to that . 
you always work on trying to improve each day 
and inevitably one facet of my game is n't working at one time or another . 
either i 'm not driving very well 
or i 'm not hitting long irons very well 
or i 'm not putting well 
but sometimes it all comes together . 
i know what you mean . 
when i used to golf out there i 'd putt well 
but i would n't chip well . 
one of the two 
or something would go wrong 
but i always managed to get near par anyway . 
we just had the tour championship here in pine hurst . 
and i went to that . 
craig statler won in a playoff . 
this is a big golf area . 
i 'd say we probably have within fifteen miles , twenty golf communities built around courses that are pretty well designed and then of course , pine hurst 
and we still have the greensboro open here every year . 
do you have long waits to get on the course ? 
we do as a matter of fact . 
it 's only been that way in the last five years . 
most of the courses have a two day advance tee time you have to call , 
i just moved into this small community 
so i 'm going to try and get into one of the golf courses here . 
i , was from the twin cities area . 
that 's some cold golf too , is n't it ? 
are you sure you guys are n't having the bad weather ? 
we have cold . 
usually january and the first two weeks of february . 
i wish that 's all we had . 
but last week we were in the seventies . 
something is coming through now 
so it 's in the low forties right now . 
but it 's supposed to leave early in the week and then be back in the sixties . 
we have very windy winters and very cold . 
but we do n't get any snow anymore . 
i do n't know what changed that pattern . 
we used to get four or five inches a year . 
now we get nothing . 
it 's been probably five years since we 've had any measurable snowfall . 
i see . 
at least that does n't get in the way of golfing 
but i have played golf in the snow before . 
get out my orange golf ball and go out . 
that 's what they do here sometimes . 
you hear about it where they will take the orange ball out there 
i guess i 've always been kind of interested in , space and stuff . 
i 've , read a lot of the , astronomy books and stuff like that . 
have you been following the progress of the space health code ? 
to a degree . 
i have n't kept up as much as i would like , 
i 've just been so busy , 
i barely get a chance to read a newspaper now and then , 
it would be interesting to see if they can find other planets that will be more habitable to humans 
and 
i think i would be very interested in space travel in the future if it is at all possible . 
i would n't even mind being a pilot on one , 
or right now 
but i 'm probably getting a little too old for that . 
i know if they make the advances that they have been making , that maybe age or even physical abilities may not be a barrier anymore . 
they just made leaps and jumps . 
i agree . 
i have been to houston to visit the space center out there , 
and one of the big advances that we use every day now is velcro 
and that little space program was one of the big backers of that . 
it 's amazing , 
it 's hard to imagine what life was like without it now . 
i do n't know if you ever watch gallagher , 
he 's one of the comedians 
and , he talks a lot on velcro . 
i 've seen him before . 
what would we do without it ? . 
we were talking about that just the other day . 
what did we do without it back then ? 
i guess there was a lot of buttons and a lot of zippers and snaps . 
there 's a lot of little things that have come up . 
concentrated foods for one maybe 
i do n't know 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i 've often pictured in my mind what would you find if you just kept on going ? 
that 's true . 
i guess our minds are so finite 
when we try and picture the universe as an infinite object , and it 's hard to see . 
i always thought what do you do 
hit a brick wall , eventually . 
it 's hard to consider that something could go on indefinitely . 
that is something that would be hard to think about . 
i agree . 
like you say we 're used to finite things 
but 
i would like to see them do more in that area to make space travel more something that the ordinary person can enjoy . 
i think it 's in people 's nature to be the first to do something . 
me too . 
i would n't even mind not so much being first but just get out there and just explore . 
i think it 's in everyone 's nature to some degree to want to get out and explore something they have n't , or experience something indifferent . 
i think that 's what made us progress to the state we are is our curiosity . 
of course . 
that 's true . 
there must be some better way of doing this . 
a better place to be or whatever 
so you are always looking for something better . 
that 's true . 
i know at work people always complain to me 
you are always whining 
i 'm always looking for something better . 
there 's a better way of doing it than what we are doing it . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
and if you are just content with the way things are then you must lead a pretty dull life . 
they are always finding easier ways 
and they are doing it unconsciously . 
i guess you do n't really think about it too much . 
i guess you are always finding newer ways and better ways of doing stuff 
it 's a subconscious thing . 
somewhere they can sit down and write down what things that you 've improved upon , 
you probably would n't have a pretty good list . 
but you just do n't think about them . 
and that 's true . 
we 've gotten different programs at work to , make it visible to management that we are doing things better , 
i do n't know what to do about the federal budget . 
there certainly have been ideas surfaced recently matter of fact repeatedly by many people 
and i sort of wondered what thoughts you had on that area . 
the first one is we need people in there that understand numbers . the numbers that are being thrown around when we 're talking in trillions of dollars . which is an astronomical sum 
and the people that are talking this numbers have no concept of what that number means . 
are you talking about the elected people 
or are you talking about others ? 
the elected people . 
our senate and congress and people that deal everyday and do n't really understand what that is or how a budget even works . 
how would you achieve that ? 
let 's make them have a degree in economics . 
so you would trust the decision making economists ? 
sometimes called the dismal science . 
but people that know the value of a dollar that understand the value of a dollar , 
the , lobbyists , needs them to be eliminated from congress . 
they do n't make pragmatic decisions . 
they make a decision based on constituency instead of a decision based on what they really believe . 
or they tack on this pork bellies and do things that are good for their area to pass something that is not good for the country . 
so you would favor a law which said there could not be lobbyists . 
i definitely would . 
get rid of them . 
no causes that you think the lobbyists would be good for ? 
i think that any company or anything that wants to contribute to a fund should be able to do that , and be registered with what they ever contribute . 
but they should not have a one-on-one relationship with the people making the decisions that affect them . 
that 's a conflict of interest as far as i 'm concerned . 
when you are talking again billions and trillions of dollars you 're jeopardizing the future of the country for today . 
that , 
so you talk about jeopardizing the future . 
would you be against any deficit spending ? 
i think to bring it in line you are going to have to have a generation that 's going to really bite the bullet to bring it in line . 
you ca n't ease into it . 
it took years and years to build up the momentum that 's there now . 
i forget the figures on the interest rate 
but it 's something like hundreds of thousands of dollars a second in interest . 
part of the problem is we do n't loan from ourselves . 
we buy from intimate international banking . 
that 's why we have interest . 
and i really feel that is part of the problem that we 've let things get so out of control that we do n't want to put the brakes on them . 
but what practical steps could one take ? 
by having a budget that is reasonable . 
but everybody will say that he is for that . 
, and how will you , make that actually happen ? 
of course . 
and then add on to it . 
you take the gross national income 
and you say our budget is x number of percent of this gross national income . 
one thing we could do is give a ten percent income tax . across-the-board , 
everyone no matter what , pays a ten percent income tax . 
sounds like a good idea . 
nothing escapes ? 
no , deductions , nothing . 
that 's right . 
no deductions . 
just ten percent . 
you pay a ten percent income tax . 
that 's what you pay 
if you make forty million dollars then you 're going to pay four million . 
if you make forty dollars , you 're going to pay four dollars . 
and that 's it . 
so that 's it . 
i agree with that 
that 's a good idea 
and is it your expectation that that would raise the total revenues collected or lower them or what ? 
i do n't know that it would or would n't . 
who 's your favorite team ? 
my favorite team is the pittsburgh steelers . 
pittsburgh ? 
you bet . 
i used to be a big pittsburgh fan when i was little . 
when john stallworth played he was from my hometown in alabama , 
so i kind of grabbed on to that team , way back when . 
that 's pretty nice . 
that 's good . 
i used to watch them a lot when they were playing the big steel curtain . 
that 's right . 
how about your favorite team ? 
last year it was buffalo 
and i still try to keep up with buffalo because they just impressed me as being so efficient 
and they never score . 
they never blow out their opponents . 
they just score just enough points , 
and that really impressed me . 
is pretty close to new orleans 
and i 've been keeping up with the saints a lot . 
they are exciting , are n't they ? 
the saints are starting to impress me this year a lot . 
they are just a fun team to watch . 
did you see the game , sunday afternoon ? 
i did n't . 
it was funny . 
they a fireworks display at halftime . 
and some paper or something in the super dome up in the roof caught on fire . 
you 're kidding . 
so , they had to stop the game in lieu of the third quarter and put out this fire . 
those big piece of something came falling out of the roof and landed on the field 
so there 's this big fire on the field 
and they were dumping the gatorade bucket and everything . 
i ca n't believe that . 
you just really ca n't tell what 's going to happen . 
that 's hilarious . 
i know . 
it 's like about two weeks ago i was watching the saints . 
and morton anderson kicked a sixty yard field goal . 
and it was beautiful , right down the middle . 
he is tough , 
he has an incredible leg . 
he is . 
do you think they 're going to be able to make it this year , past the first playoff game ? 
i sure hope so . 
i 'm not sure who they play . 
right now i 've got it narrowed down to the top four teams . 
who 's that ? 
it 's pretty much going between washington and buffalo , new orleans , and chicago because chicago has only lost twice 
and one of those was to buffalo . 
and they beat the saints . 
their only time they lost . 
what do you think about houston ? 
houston . 
i saw houston play this summer in memphis . 
when i was at the game we sat right on the front row , right behind the houston oilers , 
and from what i saw houston impressed me a lot . 
but my brother watched it on t v and said that warren moon was just having an off night , 
and if that was an off night i 'd hate to see when he 's on a good night . 
he definitely is one of the best i think . 
their backfield is really impressive . 
haywood jeffreys and drew hill and allen mumblex , 
they really impress me . 
they squeaked out a game on sunday . 
that 's right . 
who did they play ? 
they played dallas . 
dallas , 
that 's right , 
they won , in overtime . 
that 's right . 
i remember that now . 
i watched that game 
do you have a favorite between those two ? 
because i 'm right here in dallas i kind of pull for dallas . 
also houston is in pittsburgh 's division 
so , i 'll almost always root against them . 
that 's true . 
i hate to say it 
but i hate dallas . 
that 's okay . 
i was never really a big dallas fan until we moved here 
and they just kind of grew on me . 
i imagine . 
that 's the way , 
i 've never been a big saints fan until the last year or two 
and they 've actually started doing something . 
so , i 've actually paid attention to them . 
do you know anything about the expansion teams they 're thinking about bringing in ? 
to tell you the truth i have n't paid too much attention to that . 
what cities are they looking at ? 
right now i think this memphis , they 're trying to get the teams . 
and that 's where i was when i saw houston play . 
saint louis is trying to get a team . 
baltimore is trying to get a team , 
and there 's some other city . 
i 'm wanting to say raleigh durham 
but i 'm not sure . 
i think you are right . 
i think it is raleigh . 
think so ? 
i think i remember hearing that . 
because i know they 've got a football team 
but i think it might be them . 
that would be fun . 
i 'd like to see some more teams get in . 
i would , definitely . 
i think they are supposed to put two in by either next year or the year after . 
and right now i think it 's memphis and baltimore have a really good shot at it . 
because i know saint louis is much bigger than memphis 
and when i went up there they were saying that memphis sold more tickets than saint louis did . 
so what do you guys having up there ? 
i have n't been up there since forty-eight , i guess . 
forty-eight . 
that 's a long time . 
it was n't forty-eight , 
it was forty-eight . 
i was in the air force . 
we did an air show out at andrews , 
andrews ? 
so what 's it been like up there ? 
for the past week or two it 's been cold and wet 
but before that , for most of the year , it 's been hot and dry . 
september was hot and dry , 
september really was , 
i 'm not sure about october . 
i think for about twelve months through september the average temperature has been higher than normal each month . 
lots of ninety degree days during the summer . 
it really has been strange here this year , 
course this whole year has been a different year in more ways than one . 
somebody said you 're either a stranger or a fool to try to predict texas weather , 
but . always , they were saying it was going to be the hottest summer ever , 
and we had all this rain , 
and it really is not a bad summer at all , 
really cool . 
but all of a sudden in october it got real hot and dry and just stayed that way for a long time . 
and then the end of october it started , 
just pouring down . 
there were flash floods everywhere , 
that kind of deal , 
and then into november the first week actually , we had a freeze , 
and the average , first frost is the fifteenth of november here 
if you had it early . 
but usually it 's not until later . 
it 's really strange . 
i think we usually have a frost in october . 
but we really need the rain that we 've been getting , 
and it has not today , 
but the last few days it 's been pouring most of the day . 
is it flooding anywhere ? 
flooding anywhere . 
i have not heard of any problems of it flooding anywhere , 
that 's occurred certainly at times in the past , 
but 
i 've not heard of any particular problems this time . 
we 're supposed to have a chance to get some rain the next couple of days here which will be a little bit more typical autumn weather . 
but really it 's strange . 
we have n't really had an autumn . 
it 's like we went into winter 
the poor trees , said what , 
we had summer lasting long 
then it became winter 
today it 's sort of change to warmer to sort of more typical autumn day . 
i have a farm a hundred miles east of here in east texas , 
and all these huge trees just like the eastern hard wood belt all the way up to maine , 
it 's that same trees , pines and hard woods hickories and oaks and stuff , 
and i was up there last weekend , 
and there are trees that still have their leaves on , 
and they 're green , 
but they 're dead . 
the freeze just got them . 
they were n't ready for it at all apparently , 
and we have n't had a typical fall at all . 
not much color changes have occurred at all . 
really weird this year . 
i 'm not sure what that means . 
i do n't know . 
our leaves are all on the ground now . 
i think it was an especially good winter for fall colors . 
so you all actually had some color ? 
it kind of crept in 
we did , for a time . 
it 's usually beautiful up there is n't it ? 
gorgeous . 
i think you could drive along in maryland and look at the sweet gum trees on each side and the pines and what not , 
and you could be driving along in east texas 
and looks just the same . 
it 's almost identical kind of country . 
beautiful . 
been that this year for the trees for the leaves . 
i was up there cutting some firewood this weekend , 
little oak tree that was dead , and cut it up and split it . 
that 's because it ca n't tolerate a freeze this early . 
is that right ? 
if it would came later it would be all right ? 
the white oaks seem to be pretty hardy . 
nothing bothers them . 
their leaves are still green , 
and there are a few oaks that have lost their leaves . 
what i notice mostly is the red maples , that the leaves are just dead , 
they got bit on the ends of the leaves a little bit , 
but they still look pretty good . 
it just depends , on the tree . 
it 's not often you get many women interested in football . 
do you follow football very much ? 
i 'm sorry , 
what ? 
do you follow football very much ? 
i do n't , 
i have n't recently . 
we can talk about something else . 
you married ? 
i 'm not , 
i guess kids are out . 
what 's that ? 
kids are out . 
are you married ? 
i 'm married . 
got two boys . 
do you like football ? 
i follow the cowboys 
but that 's about it . 
the same here . 
do you live in dallas ? 
i am a pretty big dallas fan , 
been for a long time 
but i have n't been to any games recently . 
but i try to catch the game every weekend that i can . 
have you ever been to a cowboy 's game ? 
i have n't , 
it 's pretty nice . 
we decided just to watch them at home . 
that 's good . 
at least you follow the game a little bit . 
i 'm not a fanatic about it . 
i do n't know who played when and who does what like some guys are . 
i just like to watch , 
and hopefully they win . 
that 's about the extent of it . 
right now i 'm in college , 
so i 'm more into college football than professional , i think . 
i see . 
what school are you going to ? 
i 'm at b y u . 
b y u , 
leslie , what are you studying ? 
nursing . 
nursing . 
my mom 's an l v n . 
what are you planning to go into ? 
do you want to be an r n 
i have n't really picked a field . 
i 've thought a lot about labor and delivery 
but i do n't know . 
try that . 
that 's what my mom does , labor and delivery . 
she loves it . 
is she a nurse in dallas ? 
she 's a nurse in san antonio 
but she 's been working on a late shift . 
she works i guess the graveyard 's what you 'd call it . 
she works the graveyard shift . 
and she 's worked that for years , when i was small . 
i guess probably going on twenty years now . 
and she really enjoys it . 
she likes the quiet that you have at that time of the night 
and , she just started a new job at a different hospital , closer to where she lives 
and she 's really enjoying herself . 
she really likes it . 
that 's great . 
good luck to you in pursuing your nursing degree . 
hope you 'll like it . 
do you plan on staying in the dallas area ? 
i 'd like to come back to dallas . 
right now i 'm in utah , of course . 
but , my family 's there , 
i 'd like to go back . 
i think texas , san antonio in particular , has got a large base of hospitals . 
i do n't know about dallas . 
i think dallas is pretty scattered . 
are you in san antonio ? 
i 'm in dallas 
but i 'm originally from san antonio 
and they 've got large medical center down there . 
they 've got the u t health science center out there also . 
so that 'd be the place to do it . 
my brother-in-law is in the medical profession 
he 's at medical school in san antonio right now . 
like i said , good luck to you . 
take care , 
and maybe we 'll meet up again some time . 
my name is donna donahue , 
and i live in plano , texas . 
my name is lowell , 
and i live in raleigh , north carolina . 
do you want to start 
or should i start ? 
go right ahead . 
i would say that our home is a very typical home for the area that we live in . 
we have three children , 
and they attend the public school here and are very active in a lot of the sports , soccer and baseball 
and my little girl goes to tap dance , 
and my little one goes to preschool 
and i 'm home with the children , 
just do a lot of running around . 
it seems like a lot of my neighbors kind of have a similar type life . 
what about you ? . 
i 'm single , 
and i live in a town home here in raleigh , 
and it 's pretty typical of the other town homes in the area 
we have a lot of town homes here as well as single family homes , 
and at the time that i bought this one it was just a much better arrangement for me personally . 
i 'm not home a lot . 
i travel a great deal with my job , 
so it was easier to have a home that somebody else looks out for the maintenance . 
was sort of maintenance free . 
i know my husband takes an awful lot of time on the weekends to maintain the lawn and the edging and the flower beds , 
and it 's a lot of work , owning a home with a little bit of property attached to it . 
it certainly is . 
sometimes i think it would be nice to have a town home , with not having all that responsibility . 
if you ever get one , be sure the walls are good and thick because if they 're not you can hear . 
that 's the main thing when i was shopping for one , 
i wanted to make sure i could n't hear my neighbors 
once you 're inside , you do n't know you 're in a town home . 
that sounds lovely . 
it is . 
they 're kind of built on a catty-cornered instead of side by side 
so you do n't actually hear anybody next door to you . 
so in your area then there 's probably a lot of career type people that have those type homes 
definitely . 
and the area that we 're settled in is definitely young families with kids . 
they 're still doing a lot of building in the neighborhood . 
so the people that move here seem to move from all over the country , which we 're from the northeast , 
and seems like a people just do n't , or also do n't have any family around . 
so it also gives you a common bond when you do n't have a lot of relatives visiting your neighbors , 
we also in this area seem to have a lot of retirees people who do n't want the heat of florida but do n't want the cold of the northeast 
so they settle sort of in-between . 
is it very wooded around where you are , 
there 
as a matter of fact this particular community that i live in is very wooded . 
how pretty . 
it is nice . 
i do miss that . 
around here in plano there are very few trees 
and it 's pretty flat and kind of barren 
and that 's the only thing that we do n't like about living in texas , is we miss all the beautiful trees and the fall 
and , the landscape is much different here in texas than it is in the north . or even where you are . 
we definitely have a lot of trees here . 
a lot of leaves to rake up too . 
but fortunately the home owner 's association does all that . 
that 's another plus . 
i do n't have to worry about that 
and this is the time of year we 're starting to lose , 
they 're all falling now . 
that 's right , 
that 's right , 
they are . 
i 'm going to get the kids to get outside with the other neighbor kids and do the little bit of raking that needs to be done . 
we just have a few trees in the front and a few in the back but , not much . 
just a little 
kind of just in more of a make a little bit of a mess for a few weeks 
and if you did n't do anything about it , then they 'd probably the leaves just blow away . 
it 's not too bad . 
do we have to speak for a certain amount of time ? 
i do n't think so . 
it was really nice speaking to you . 
it was good to speak with you too . 
and have a happy thanksgiving . 
thank you , 
you too . 
i guess social change takes in a big category , 
but i guess the one aspect of it that i took in consideration is more economical . 
i know that or how far your dollar goes probably more than anything has greatly changed . 
i agree . 
it was on a talk show , 
they took the parents and then the son , 
and they compared income at different points in time when the father was a little bit younger and more in his heyday 
and they compared to the son 's , that he was making now . 
and even though the son was probably more successful higher up in the management ladder he was actually making less money when you go by costs of living . 
and it 's depending on where you live , though , too . 
i think i was living better ten years ago than i am now , even though i 'm making more money now , 
but my dollar went a lot farther . 
that 's true . 
ten years ago i was eleven . 
. i remember though buying candy and stuff that was a lot less expensive than it is now . 
and i used to hear stories from my grandpa , 
and he could see a movie for a nickel and things like that . 
i know i used to pay twenty-five cents a gallon 
and now it 's over a buck . 
i do n't know what it 's by you . 
around here minnesota , wisconsin area it 's dropping , 
but i think it 's about a dollar fifteen on an average . 
i 'm from wisconsin , 
. 
most of the people i talk to are texas , 
i spoke to a person from texas , too . 
this is only my second phone call 
so i 'm waiting for mine . 
i suppose this will be towards my last one pretty soon , 
so they 'll stop me 
but i 'm pretty much out to the things to say . 
like social changes . 
and i do n't think this would have anything to do with it , 
but clothing and styles , lot of those changed . 
like i say , it 's a broad category , 
it 's just i 'm not economical 
but even attitudes on clothing and stuff i know . 
towards each other . 
i know a lot of the things that men wear nowadays would have been considered feminine many years ago , 
but . i know , it was hard for me at first , 
but now i kind of like a lot of the bright colors . 
i used to be more conservative and just your basic colors , 
but now i do like some of these brighter , fluorescent colors . 
but styles come and go all the time , though . 
it 's just ridiculous , 
fads in and out . 
and even clothing from the sixties came back . 
i see a lot of girls wearing sixties clothes . 
i guess the best thing i like to see from the sixties and seventies of course , is the mini skirt , of course . 
one of the nice things , 
i do n't think that there 's anything as original , 
it 's all based on one of the past styles , 
they just make their circle and come back again . 
so if you hang onto your clothes long enough they 'll be back in style in a few years . 
that 's true , 
maybe some day 
i probably wo n't be alive to see it , 
but prices might go down lot more . 
i do n't know though , 
does n't look good . 
thinking back , i think the only style i hope does n't come back is bell bottoms . 
i remember that , 
i do . 
i guess when i look at pictures of myself in the bell bottoms i say god . 
i did n't really care for them either . 
what 's your favorite baseball team , rita ? 
i suppose i 'm supposed to say the rangers . 
that is n't a true false or right or wrong test here . 
i would like to say the rangers , 
but unfortunately they 're not . 
i was from illinois , 
and my favorite team was the white sox . 
not a cubbies fan . 
my dad was , 
but i turned out to be a white sox fan . 
that 's all right . 
i lived in chicago . 
how do you expect them to do this year ? 
they did pretty well . 
what did you think of the world series ? 
i 'll tell you . 
i just moved down from south dakota in july , 
and in south dakota , the minnesota twins are the closest professional sports team to where i was living 
and so everybody was a twins fan , 
and i , did n't have much interest in the twins , 
it was kind of pathetic 
we only had two radio stations , 
and one of them broadcast every twins game live , 
and the other one was country . 
so you did n't really have a lot of choice , did you . 
so , that 's right . 
there was twins there , or skip williams . 
or country . 
and i was routing for the twins myself because a couple of ranger players that i had watched when we first moved here went to minnesota , 
my son and i used to have a bet going about some of the players that had moved from here to minnesota , 
but it certainly was an exciting series , anyway . 
it sure was , 
it sure was . 
what do you think ? 
i would like to assume that they 're going to do better this coming year , 
or can we predict ? 
i was sure hopeful anyway . 
when we moved down i was able to go to my first baseball game , and thought , this is great , 
this is incredible . 
so i became a rangers fan . 
i did n't really have one in south dakota . 
so i adopted the rangers , 
or rather they adopted me , i guess 
and it was just exciting , 
you can watch baseball on t v 
and they hit the long ball , 
and it looks like they really hit that ball . 
but when you go to the ball park , it 's really not all that far , 
and it 's so much more exciting watching a ball come at you , 
is n't it though . 
but i think going to the ball park just really makes it . because then you watch it on t v you feel like you 're more a part of it too . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
i 'm a great sports enthusiast , 
so i love baseball teams , 
in fact , on the news tonight , nolan ryan was on there . 
he was put in the restaurant hall of fame . 
the restaurant hall of fame inducted him tonight , 
and he says he 's coming back , 
he does n't know how many years to pitch . 
he 'll be at least one more , 
and he said he 's been saying one more , and it 's been two and three , might be two and three more . 
he likes it . 
that 's right 
and he 's still doing great still doing excellent . 
that 's right . 
and he said , i get a kick out of it 
he 's such a nice man . 
did n't he just sign a twelve year contract with the rangers ? 
when he quits at being active , he will go into managing and being a coach , i 'm sure . 
management . 
but he certainly is a good example for the kids . 
that 's right . 
you like to have someone like that you could point to say , see what a fine man , , he is . 
ivan rodriguez was n't even born when , nolan ryan started pitching . 
that 's right . 
and it 's just incredible to think that there are players who are the sons of ball players that used to play against nolan or with nolan , 
and now their sons are . 
he 's been a legend for so many years , 
and i do n't know , 
had you moved here yet when he did the exhibition at u t with his son . 
his son pitched for u t 
and he pitched for an exhibition game for the rangers . 
i was n't . 
i think it was a little early part of the summer , 
ryan against ryan . 
ryan against ryan , 
his son pitched for u t 
that is neat . 
and only ryan did n't want too much publicity on it because he did n't want his son getting too nervous about this whole thing . 
a game is a game . 
the rangers really knocked the socks off of them , which you would expect anyway , 
but nolan took himself out after a couple of innings or something of the game 
what do you think is the worst culprit for air pollution ? 
i think it 's probably a combination of things . 
factories that burn coal as an energy source with sulfur and nitrogen contaminants , 
and you get sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides . 
those are the ones i think primarily contribute to acid rain , 
and i think that 's probably hurting us a little bit . 
it 's hurting germany , for example , too , and some other parts of europe where they have high industry . 
so we 're not the lone ranger here . 
hopefully we 're backing off from that a little bit , 
but i know we have n't cured it yet by a long shot . 
i notice on one of these home shopping networks they were selling these halogen fire extinguishers 
and the halogen is an ozone depleter , 
and it got hydrocarbons in there . 
it 's a very clean fire extinguisher , 
but it 's really bad on the environment . 
i guess i missed that one . 
automobiles of course are contributing , too , 
and , you know , how we are with our love affair with the auto 
kind of hard to do anything about that , i guess . 
i know , 
i just moved out of there and was kind of happy i timed it just right , 
but they had a new policy where in order to get your car license , renewed , you had to meet the pollution standards 
we have that here , too , 
but it 's part of the inspection sticker , 
they put a probe in your exhaust pipe 
and the computer reads whatever the ionization is coming out , 
and so that 's the way they 're dealing with it here . 
i guess that was just mainly in the cities there , 
and as far as where i live , i do n't have to do that , 
but i have an old car which i doubt would , pass the inspection , a seventy-six , 
and there 's no way i would put in a lot of money to repair it to meet standards . 
it 'd probably be difficult anyway . 
i was just reading an article in mother earth news magazine 
a lot of places are burning wood 
a lot of people are burning wood , 
i 've got a place in the country 
i think they 're required in california and oregon and washington , 
but they 've had up those for quite a while , 
it 's a catalytic converter , 
it 's a plate that fits into the smoke pipe 
and apparently it sort of feeds itself . 
after you get to like five hundred degrees , the higher it gets the more complete the combustion is . 
and it sounds real neat . 
i have n't seen them priced anywhere yet , 
but that sounds like that might help solve that problem even on older stoves that do n't have any kind of e p a requirements on them . 
that might help a little bit , especially in some places . 
we 're really lucky here . 
we have a prevailing southerly wind that blows just about everything out . 
especially in , autumn it seem like we get kind of a brown haze sitting on us , 
but most of the time it 's blowing out pretty well . 
probably blowing up there to you guys . 
it depends , 
either in the winter time it blows it your way , 
and in the summer time we probably get yours . 
it comes back . 
i really think we 're doing some important things . 
education , raising consciousness awareness , 
i work for the school district here , 
and this is one of the big things with kids . 
kids are writing letters to the newspapers telling adults to clean up their act 
i hope we 're not too late with it . 
we 're having all kinds of recycling . 
that 's a big thing , too . 
i know it has nothing to do with air pollution , 
i was going to say , my college is northern state university in aberdeen , south dakota , 
and our head football coach , dennis muir , used to be an assistant coach at b y u . 
so i thought that was kind of an interesting coincidence . 
so you went to what college ? 
northern state university in aberdeen , south dakota . 
and what did you graduate in ? 
in what major or what year ? 
major . 
international business . 
and you ? 
i 'm going to b y u , 
and i 'm going into nursing 
that sounds interesting . 
how long of a program is that ? 
forever . 
seems like . 
it 's about five years , 
but it 's probably going to take me longer , because i did n't decide to major in that until about a year and a half after i was already in school , 
i read a study once , 
and it said that like thirty-four percent of college students actually graduate in four years from a four year program . 
it took me five years . 
so , you get started 
and you change your mind , 
or you want to pick up a second major , 
if you 're management , you , thought , i 'll take that marketing , 
it only was three more classes , 
and just does n't happen that you get out in four years . 
what is your advice to picking a college . 
my advice is , look at the student to faculty ratio , 
if you 're going to go to a college where student faculty ratio is three and four hundred to one , i do n't think you 're going to have as meaningful of a college experience as if you 're down to the thirty to forty to one . 
, what was yours more like ? 
it was about twenty-six to one . 
that 's great . 
it 's interesting , 
what i thought was nice is there was always time to talk to professor , 
and they knew you . 
you were n't just in their class , 
and so you could go talk to them in their office almost at any time , 
or if you ran into them in the student union or whatever you could sit down , talk to them about a problem . 
they 're always willing to help you out . 
but i put that against my high school where we had a biology class of three hundred and fifty students 
in high school ? 
it was a biology lecture class 
and it just was n't the same . 
you 're sitting there , 
and you 're taking notes 
and you got a computerized test scores , multiple choice , because there 's no way they could correct a three hundred fifty person short answer test . 
and , it just was n't the same . 
you 'd pass the teacher in high school 
and , even in high school you could say high to your teachers , unless you 're in that biology class , 
and they 'd look at you like , do i know you ? 
or should i know you ? 
the classes here are pretty big , 
so , it 's hard to get individual help . 
it 's kind of , you 're on your own . 
do you get a lot of tutoring , 
very little , 
for example , i 'm in a chemistry class right now 
and there 's tons of students in it , 
and there 's one t a for the whole class . 
and he only has certain office hours , 
and so there 's only certain times you can talk to him , 
and you could get there 
and he could have a nine to eleven in the morning office hours and have forty-two people waiting to talk to him , 
and you still did n't get to talk to him anyway . 
what would be your advice to a parent of a child thinking of attending college ? 
i think your advice is good . 
let 's see . 
my advice would be to pick a major before you get into college 
that 's excellent advice . 
because i did n't , 
and i took tons of classes that i did n't need to , 
and i do n't know , 
and not that 's always bad , 
i do n't know , 
it 's frustrating , i guess . 
it does get it . 
you get to the point where i 'm never going to get done . 
i was taking summer classes 
and let me get out of here . 
but 
that 's good advice . 
even if you do n't have your major decided on , have an idea what you think you might want , 
you do n't want management , 
but you think you want business , 
how many credit cards do you have ? 
i think i 'm down to one . 
i wish i was that way . 
is that why you said i had more experience than you ? 
i was pulling your leg . 
how do you use your credit card ? 
do you just keep it in reserve , 
the way i 'd like to try and use it is you make your purchases at prime buying time 
and then you pay that off and do n't use it until it 's paid off . 
that 's my ideal way . 
how do you use it ? . 
emergencies come along , 
and i use it . 
that 's understandable , 
my car had a major problem , 
seven hundred dollars , 
and things just come up 
and you just never get to use it the way you 'd really like to . 
actually i do have quite a few more credit cards than you have . 
and i use them , 
my american express i use for gas , things like that , 
and i pay that off monthly , 
and then some other credit cards , like store credit cards i do have them up there a little bit , 
i try not to use them too often . 
i live fifteen miles west of washington , d c 
it 's a very expensive area . 
so , sometimes you have no other choice if you need to buy something . 
i know i was up in there , 
and i was just starting to get to where it was getting me in trouble 
so we just disposed of them , paid them off , and got out of it . 
that was good that you had the opportunity to do that . 
are you married , that you both , you and your wife use a credit card , 
we pretty much just pay cash for as much as we can there . 
our only credit card is sears , 
and i have that for automotive purposes . 
that 's great . 
everyone i know here uses credit cards like they 're going out of business to be honest with you . 
it 's just too easy , basically just get yourself in trouble with those . 
i have a diner 's club through where i work 
i see . 
so that i use , because i travel some . 
so i use that , 
and i do n't really have to worry about that , because i only use it for business , 
so i automatically have the money to pay it off . 
you start out at a low limit , 
and then they just keep wanting you to increase your limit 
and if i can get one that 'll keep my limit at five hundred and i can never go over that or something like that , then that 's fine , 
but they eventually gets up there to five thousand , ten thousand , whatever fifty thousand 
forget it , 
i do n't want that . 
the temptation 's too great . 
so , i do n't know , 
just writing checks is just as easy i guess . 
that 's true , 
that 's true , 
so , i guess we 've kind of exhausted this topic . 
you ca n't say too much about it really . 
other than , you use them or you do n't use them . you like them or you do n't like them . 
i guess they do n't care if we end it early . 
so hopefully you have a good thanksgiving . 
that 's coming up , 
and , then , maybe we 'll talk again . 
you , too . 
i 've talked to a lot of people in texas . 
texas is the big one . 
then . 
. 
what kind of car would you like to buy next ? 
i guess cadillac . 
i guess that 's kind of everybody 's dream . 
why would that be ? 
i guess it 's a general motors product , 
and i like general motors because they 're made in the united states , 
and we 've had general motors for years and have always had real good luck with them . 
that 's good . 
if you had no financial requirements , if you could buy any car in the entire world , no matter what it cost , what would you buy ? 
i think i 'd still go with the cadillac . 
do you ? 
which type of cadillac is your favorite ? 
i do n't know . 
the seville . 
that 's a sharp looking car . 
that really is . 
it always has been though , 
they have been . 
it does n't have the coup de ville or the sedan de ville squareness . 
it never really has . 
it 's always had it 's own unique look . 
i 've always liked that . 
a couple years they had where the trunk head would look like belt buckles across the back of it . 
i thought , that looks sharp 
that looks real sharp . 
i think they 're very pretty . 
and course a vinyl top , i think those are pretty . 
i 've never ridden in one recently , 
but they 're supposed to be just real smooth . 
just a nice comfortable ride . 
they are , 
they look like they 're sturdy , 
they look like they 're very sturdy , 
and you do n't have to worry that much about getting hurt like you would in a small one . 
now they 've got a unique feature in them now . 
if you have a front end accident at such a rate of speed , the engine will actually drop out of the car so that it does n't go into the inside . 
it 'll go underneath the car instead . 
i did n't know that . 
so that 's a big safety factor they 've got in them now . 
and i suppose they all have the balloons . 
the air bags , 
the air bags , 
that 's great , 
that 's great , 
you say you 've always have preferred general motors products . 
i do . 
i go for things built in the united states rather than foreign countries . 
help our economy 
what kind of general motors cars have you had in the past ? 
mostly oldsmobiles . 
oldsmobiles . 
those are real nice riding cars too . 
that 's what we have now , 
but of course if i have a choice i 'd still have the cadillac 
but i 've been very satisfied with the oldsmobiles . 
we 've driven them for about probably twenty years . 
has that been the cutlass or the sierra ? 
the ninety-eight . 
the ninety-eight , 
let 's see , 
the ninety-eight , 
that 's got that big v eight engine in it , does n't it ? 
i do n't know . 
has a little v six ? 
but it 's a very good car . 
it 's not had one minute 's problem with it , 
and now i have twenty-three thousand miles on it . 
that 's great 
that 's great . 
that 's always nice to get reliability in a product . especially when you 're spending anywhere from fifteen to twenty-five thousand dollars for a single item , 
you just do n't want any hassles with it . 
you expect it to do its job , 
and i think a lot of car manufacturers do n't take that into consideration . 
that 's true . 
they just expect you to buy their product , 
but that 's been a key factor in me , is how reliable is this car going to be . 
price is an issue , 
but it 's not the most important issue . 
it really is n't , because now you can get five year financing on them 
but i would go with the general motors any time . 
i 've always been a ford man , myself . 
but that 's all right . 
it 's american made too which is good . 
ever since i was growing up , my dad 's always had fords , 
and i grew up in south dakota . 
so everybody has a truck 
i 've just never had problems with them . 
i honestly think i would die before my truck would , keel over on me . 
those are good products also . 
let 's see , 
i guess my initial view is our tax burden has n't gone down in recent years , our total tax burden , despite tax cuts 
but among industrialized nations we have one of the lowest in the world , 
of the matter , 
you get what you pay for , 
if we 're going to have national health insurance , which seems likely , it 's necessarily going to involve more taxes . 
i take the view that cutting income tax rates has been good for the economy , that most other countries have a higher share of the tax burden in various kinds of sales taxes energy taxes , particularly , and that to the extent we need to raise more taxes , that 's the direction we should look . 
i guess i kind of have mixed feelings . 
you always sit there 
and out of each pay check so much comes out of it , 
and you wonder where 's it all going 
where 's it all going ? 
and we have such a huge national deficit , 
and i guess a lot of times there 's questions wondering if it 's doing a whole lot of good . 
i know there 's a lot of social programs out there that need help . 
but you kind of always wonder , where 's the money going ? . 
one of the big tax that has gone up a lot in this year is the social security tax which in principle is going into a big trust fund , 
but that is a particularly regressive tax , 
it 's a tax on the first dollar earnings , 
and senator moynihan 's proposal to cut there makes a lot of sense . 
i 'm sorry , 
i think senator moynihan 's proposal to cut the social security tax which is n't really going to beef up the social security program could make a lot of sense . 
i agree with that . 
i know 
we were in ireland last year 
and i know that the tax there is extremely high , much higher than we pay here , 
i think japan is probably about equal to ours 
and other major countries are higher . 
and , as a whole , most other countries have a higher level of cradle to grave government services , 
they 're real trade-offs there . 
and you sit there and wonder , 
i guess this does n't really have to do with taxes but just money in general , and , wondering if you 're going to have enough when you retire to live on . 
that 's a scary thing that there 's no real knowing about . 
there 's a lot of inflation risk that is n't taken care of in most private pension plans . 
that 's true . 
but are you involved with the legislature up there , 
i 'm at the national institute of standards and technology . part of the commerce department . here in gaithersburg , maryland . 
i was just wondering since you said washington d c , 
and you picked this topic , 
i was just kind of curious . 
i did n't pick it 
you did n't . 
i do n't really recall . 
i may have filled out on the form , 
but i certainly have the feeling i 've been given topics different from the ones that i mentioned before . 
did you . 
i have n't placed any calls . 
did they automatically assign the topic ? 
when you place a call topic is given to you . 
i did n't know that . 
i thought whoever made the call could choose what topic , because i have n't made any calls yet . 
i 've just received some . 
you should try it . 
i did n't realize that . 
because it can be a rather controversial subject depend on who you 're talking to . 
many of the subjects are . taxes especially . 
one thing that has kept our tax burden high is the level of the defense budget 
my name is donna , 
and i 'm calling from plano , texas . 
this is laurie , 
and i 'm in garland . 
would you like me to go first ? 
i have three children two who are in regular school eleven year old , an eight year old , 
and then my little one , three year old , is in a university of gymnastics , 
it 's a preschool 
and i think it was really hard to pick the right day care or preschool or mother 's day out . 
i guess you can classify them all together . 
some of the qualifications that i look for was the cost , and exactly what they did , if it was structured or nonstructured , if they had a little academic in there , and what the qualifications of the teachers ' were , and if the place was clean and the hours 
and just kind of going by word of mouth and finding out if anybody else has been pleased with their program that kind of stuff . 
we do n't have any children , 
but we 're going to have one next year . 
congratulations . 
so that 's something that i 'm probably going to be looking at maybe in the future . 
i 'm working part time now , 
and i do n't know if i 'll be doing that or what we 're going to do . 
or staying home . 
but if we do , then i 'm going to need to find somebody , 
and our church has a mother 's day out program which they started last year , 
and we know a lot of people at the church 
so i would feel very confident with leaving my child there . 
that 's a very good place to start i think . 
the mother 's day out programs , 
and that 's where shannon had started , in a mother 's day out program 
and the churches always have a pretty good program , 
and you have to make sure that you apply pretty early , because a lot of places have very long waiting lists . 
and another question to ask is if they 're state certified if the teachers have their master 's degree in child education and child development . 
what kind of a structure is it going to be . 
when your child 's a little bit older , like a three year old you 'd be more concerned with if there 's a type of care that it 's torture for them to lay down and take a nap . 
is there a mandatory nap time ? 
time . 
what they do at shannon 's school is have a video tape going , 
and they lay on these little mats , 
and if they fall asleep , they kind of let them sleep , 
and the teacher stays with the sleeping ones , 
and the other ones get up and go do something else . 
so , she does n't have to necessary take a nap there which is nice . . 
it 's kind of scary because you hear so many bad things about day cares lately , 
that 's true . 
and so , i guess it 's such a growing concern , 
but then there 's a lot of good things you do n't hear . 
and sometimes when the child 's a lot younger before three years old , the church is a good program 
and sometimes you even consider having a private person come to your own home when they 're real little or something like that , 
and another consideration is what 's the ratio of teachers to children 
to children . 
because that makes , a difference , 
just your child , 
or do they just put any child in any crib , 
you would want , maybe , your child to have their own sheets all the time , and not have another child use that bed . 
i 'm sure that whatever you decide , you 'll be happy with . 
and it 's exciting time to have a new one . 
we 're pretty excited . 
i bet . 
that 's wonderful . 
but we have been thinking about that , 
but it 's a little ways off in the future 
but i figure i 'd probably start asking around at church because i know they have a limit as to how old they can be before you can bring them in . 
asking . 
some places take them as infants like eight weeks , even . 
there 's a place to look into , 
a friend of mine who 's a nurse was telling about a wonderful new place that opened some place on fifteenth street , 
nurses that used to work in the hospital take care of infants and then only up to two years old 
some places just specialize in just real little ones 
and then other ones are the older children . 
but it is a difficult situation , i think . 
my name is donna , 
and i 'm calling from plano , texas . 
i 'm jay in dallas . 
i find exercise kind of a task , i guess i 'd say . 
i go to aerobics two days a week , 
but i also have three kids at home 
so they keep me pretty busy . 
that keeps you . 
that gives me plenty of exercise , 
but i enjoy walking outside and bicycling once in a while with the family . 
excuse me . 
that 's fine . 
and yourself . 
i walked and run almost every morning . 
i 've sort of stopped here with the weather change , 
but it 's about a thirty minute exercise every morning . 
every morning . 
my husband swims every day at lunch , which he loves doing 
that 's fantastic exercise . 
he does it every day like a ritual . 
once in a while or if he has a business meeting or if someone invites him to lunch , he 'll not go , 
but he goes every day , 
and then he 's a runner , too . 
he runs three mornings a week 
he gets up about five and does his deal , 
and some days he does n't , 
but then maybe he 'll catch up on the weekend and go for a run . 
i 'd rather get a bicycle , 
but i had an exercise bike in the house , but did n't seem to use it enough , 
so somebody sold it in a garage sale , 
but i 'd like to get a bike and just do biking outside . 
the bicycling is nice especially with the weather around here , 
and i know my husband and i both do it to just keep the pounds off . 
we 're getting up in age in our late thirties 
it keeps going , 
because i 'm fifty-five , 
and it just gets worse . 
you still want to eat , 
i know . 
i think you feel better , too , if you get on some program like that , 
i go to this aerobics class two mornings a week , 
and i take my three year old with me . 
there 's a nursery there . 
and it 's kind of another day out for her to have little friends , 
and i enjoy the socialization of it , getting to see the same women every morning , 
but there are some parts during that exercise that i think , i can not do another second of this . 
i know some of it is so tough 
it is . 
and especially when somebody 's planning lunch for you and they know what 's good for you , 
we take the easy way sometimes . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
thank you for calling . 
thank you for participating . 
thank you . 
what kind of car are you thinking of buying next ? 
more than likely , it 's going to be a chrysler . 
you like the chrysler products , do you ? 
chrysler lebaron , 
it wo n't be a ford . 
i 've got a ford mustang now , 
and i hate it . 
do you really ? 
what year is it ? 
it 's a eighty-eight . 
and why do n't you like the mustang ? 
i 've had one problem with it after the other . 
i 'll be darned . 
the paint 's peeling off of it , 
and there 's no reason for it 
fix or repair daily or find them road dead . 
you know the old sayings about fords , what they stand for . 
there you go . 
my electrical system shorted out like two or three times , 
and it 's been torn up since april , 
and luckily , everything was under warranty , 
so it 's only costing a hundred and forty dollars to get it fixed . 
it would have been two thousand . 
we 've always had oldsmobiles , and been very happy with oldsmobiles , 
but my wife thought she wanted to get a ford mustang 
and then she kind of changed her mind and thinks her next car ought to be one of those mitsubishi eclipses . 
she likes those . 
those are nice cars . 
she has a sister that lives in phoenix that has one and really enjoys it . 
what things do you consider when you buy a car ? 
the gas mileage for one thing , 
and i 've always had stick shift . 
the next car i get i want it to be automatic . 
i see . 
i hate driving anyway , 
and changing gears at stop lights and stuff is really getting on my nerves now . 
especially when you 're in high traffic areas and have to mess with that all the time . 
and when you work nine to five , or eight to five , and you 're in rush hour traffic to and from work , unfortunately . 
that makes it very frustrating . 
and one of the things with chrysler right now is the warranties that they have , 
everybody i 've talked to that owns one , has been real pleased with it , 
and i like the driver 's air bag , 
i like that . 
this is a lebaron ? 
all chrysler products has it in there , 
but lebaron would be the next car i get , 
i sure like those rag top lebarons , 
they really look sporty . 
i like that too , 
but i could n't afford the insurance on one of those . 
this last oldsmobile we bought it 's an eighty-seven , 
but we bought it in eighty-eight right at the end of the year when they were trying to get rid of them 
and we found a real good interest rate , 
when they 're trying to get rid of those cars at the end of the year like that , they really come down on their prices 
and we looked around at used cars , 
and we really could n't afford the payments on a used car , 
because if you go to the bank and try to get a loan , they want to charge twelve , thirteen percent , 
and we ended up with a four and a half percent interest rate on a brand new car , and the payments . 
that 's what i 'm paying on mine now . 
my dad 's always cosigned on my loans , or whatever , 
i got my mustang this time by myself , because i got on my own , or whatever , 
they said it had to be a first time buyer 's car or whatever , 
and they 're charging me unreasonable interest , 
but i 've got eight more payments 
and it 's paid for . 
that 's great . 
but i got it when the eighty-eights first came out , 
it 's a good car 
i 
when our kids were younger we really wanted a two door . 
our first car was an oldsmobile back in seventy-seven . 
it was a two door cutlass supreme , 
and it just happened that when we looked for our new car , they had a thing going with oldsmobile 
and if you 'd buy a new oldsmobile they 'd give you rebate , because it was their seventy-fifth anniversary . 
seventy-fifth anniversary . 
so in addition to everything else we got off the car , all we had to do is show them our papers on our first car , 
and they gave us another four hundred dollars off on it . 
so we got a four door this time , 
and i sort of went more for the comfort factor , 
and i liked the smaller cars , 
but i 'm a bigger person , 
and i really like comfort driving along the road and stuff . 
that 's another big factor of mine . 
next car i get 's going to be a four door too . something with some room . 
because my mustang is two door with bucket seats , 
and you buy groceries and stuff like that . 
push my number . 
are you a golfer 
or are you a spectator ? 
i play golf 
but i do n't actually play golf . 
i 'm the same way . 
i go out there and hit the ball . 
hack it all over the place ? 
it 's sickening , is n't it ? 
in the carolinas it 's just we 've got a bunch of golf courses around here . 
we 've got tons up here 
but i do n't know . 
how do you feel about your game ? 
i guess that 's a good question ? 
i 'm not a serious golfer at all , 
a friend of mine goes golfing a lot 
and he drags me out every now and then 
and i do n't really even have a game . 
but i like watching it on t v . 
i like that too . 
i do n't know 
i try to play , 
but a couple years ago i played two , three times a week and got lousy . 
i guess that 's the best i ever got was lousy . 
and i thought i was really improving and the big break was going to come 
and then i got worse again 
to get me they say i hit worm burners because i ca n't hit it up in the air . 
i 'm pretty bad 
but i get great distance hitting it across the ground , 
but i 'm getting better . 
i 've got where now i can hit it in the air some of the time . 
that 's pretty good . 
so i 'm kind of a novice at it . 
i 'm that and worse . 
actually i take it kind of seriously 
but i 've been doing so bad . 
next year i 'm starting over from scratch . 
i 'm going to go take lessons and everything . 
i 'm going to do it right , and see if i can actually play this game or not . 
i guess that 's what i need to do is get some kind of lessons or something . 
because my tee off is not bad , 
i 'm good up to everything else putting and stuff like that 
it 's just , that initial tee . 
what do you do when you 're putting ? 
that 's a good thing . 
that 's something i could learn actually . 
that 's when i do my worst . 
i finally get to the green 
and i think i 'm doing all fine 
checking the ground and so forth . 
see how it 's going to break or whatever . 
can you really see it though ? 
what about the speed ? 
if you get down on the ground you really can . 
but can you tell how fast you 're going to hit it ? 
you know if it 's up on a slope that you 've got to hit it not kill it 
because when it 's going up a hill it 's going to break in a direction . 
but you can feel that ? 
i do n't know 
i can get it within four or five feet or something 
but i do n't have enough field . 
now i 'm t v watching . 
they make you die at the hole every time . 
it just dies and rolls in . 
i do n't know , 
it 's hard for me . 
it 's like i said 
once i get up on the green i 'm fine , 
when teeing off i 'll go probably a hundred feet across the ground 
so it takes me awhile to get to the hole 
once you 're there , you 're all set though . 
i 'm all set . 
we should play team golf then . 
i 'll get us there 
and you put it in . 
that sounds good to me . 
the t v golfers they do that . 
it takes them two to get there and two to get it in 
so it 's fifty percent . 
and me it takes me five to get there and five to get it in . 
it usually takes me about probably two or three to get it there 
and then , that 's according to the hole 
maybe one or two putts . 
it 's , according to where i 'm at on the green . 
that 's good . 
but the friends i play with they play all the time 
and they 're really good . 
joe pros ? 
they 're not joe pros 
but they golf in the high sixties low seventies 
so i guess they 're pretty good . 
that 's pretty good . 
for eighteen ? 
for eighteen . 
that 's pretty good . 
i 'm talking to the wrong guy . 
your shitty golf is probably the best golf i 've ever seen . 
that 's not my golf . 
that 's my friends . 
i 'm usually in the eighties or nineties 
so i 'm not good . 
when i 'm in the nineties i 'm feeling good . 
i 'm usually around a hundred . 
that 's my thing . around a hundred . 
i can hit a great drives and think i 'm going to do all awesome on this hole 
but it ai n't going to happen . 
teeing off i either slice it or i hook it ever single time 
and i alternate . 
it 's a good thing with me i slice it every single time . 
that 's good . 
i 'm sorry . 
invasions of privacy . 
what most annoys me are all sorts of phone calls trying to sell me things . 
all , sorts of hours calling and telling me that i want investment advise and i want this service and that service or the other thing . 
i hate those canned messages they put on my recorder . 
my sense is that something may just have been done about it by congressmen 
just what went into the 
something about the random dialers that just dial phone numbers . 
i guess in some cases they just consider pickup your phone and not let you use your phone for a while whether you hang up on them or not . 
but i thought i saw something about it having some kind of provision that people could specify that their phones were not for commercial using 
and , businesses would be prohibited from calling for business selling you things . 
i 'm sure that 's true . 
no nine hundred numbers can be dialed from my phone or received . 
some of did too . 
i think government can do that now , 
is that right ? 
and especially with possibly children around . 
that could be useful protection . 
and i do n't have children around 
but i just do n't like those nine hundred numbers . 
so , i 've excluded those . 
but it does not stop you from the dialing services . 
what are dialing services ? 
where they intend to sell you things . 
where people just call you . 
and then those problems has been eliminated 
those problems used to be when i used a credit card they 'd want to have my phone number . 
and i did not like giving it out . 
i gave out my work number 
otherwise i think the practice has basically been eliminated asking for a phone number . 
that 's the thing i hated too about radio shack . 
how did radio shack work ? 
if you go in and buy anything they want your phone number . 
and i do n't think they 're going to call me and ask me how it 's functioning , 
and i do n't give that out . 
i have an unlisted number 
so i do n't , 
that 's one solution 
but you nonetheless often get people calling you ? 
despite the fact that your number is unlisted ? 
and you actually have your number 
or are they just calling a number that happens to be yours ? 
anything that you buy you may get put on a , preferred list that is purchased . 
and companies can purchase this list 
and what that is is people who buy from the mail . 
and they have a whole list of addresses and list of phone numbers . 
is there anything you can do about that like give out a phony phone number ? 
some of that unfortunately is legal . 
so they ca n't stop people from advertising 
and that 's what it falls under . 
it falls under the guise of advertising . 
so , i do n't care for it , 
but is it a legal solution for some companies . 
so that 's the way things are . 
i do n't know . 
i think it 's gotten much worse the last , few years . 
maybe that 's just because i 've gotten on more lists . 
the telephone is not the only invasion of privacy . 
you 've got the holy rollers 
and you 've got all kinds of people knocking on your door and , who want to either direct you to the right path or want to sell you paper routes whatever , 
so it 's not just the telephone . 
sell you magazines . 
surprised they get anybody this time of day 
but , i 've been trying all different times , 
but i do n't get anybody at five thirty , do n't get anybody at nine at night 
i 'm at , work 
and i just happened to walk back into my office . 
i 've been gone for a little while . 
i go to school 
so i 'm home certain days , 
and i really have n't been making any phone calls , have you ? 
i have n't ever made any . 
i just receive them . 
have you received many ? 
i have n't . 
the first time we were on this it came just about every day . 
i never had to make one . 
they just always came . 
people must be tired of it or something . 
i guess we 're supposed to discuss this subject , 
what do you think ? . 
i never gave it any thought myself . 
i was hoping you could tell me what you thought . 
i do n't have any objection to people doing that . 
i think it might be good for them . 
but as a mother of two daughters i might be afraid of where they were sent . 
i 'm just concerned about their safety 
because if they do good work in america they 'll probably be sent to a ghetto . 
and if they were sent to a third world country i could n't help but wait worried . 
that would be my main objection . 
i do n't know 
i think maybe it should stay on a voluntary basis . 
it will probably never happen 
i think it would be good for everyone to do something like that 
but i guess i do n't feel like it should be something forced upon you . 
it probably wo n't . 
i do n't even know how we 'd pay for it anyway . 
we ca n't seem to pay for all the little things we have going now . 
that 's another consideration . 
but i do n't know 
some kids are so spoiled nowadays 
it might be a real eye opener . 
sometimes my kids are on the other side of town here 
and they just see some really tiny modest wood frame homes 
they 're just kind of shocked at that side of town . 
i probably lived in one of those when i was a little girl . 
i have a girlfriend that every time her son starts taking things for granted she threatens to send him to mexico with her relatives and let him get a taste of that for a while . 
that would be an eye opener , would n't it ? 
would n't it though ? 
right next to us is such a pitiful country . 
it is . 
i know . 
sometimes i wish we 'd help them out instead of going all across the world , and helping some countries i never even heard of . 
i know it . 
it would be to our benefit to strengthen that country . right on our borders . 
but , what do i know ? . 
nobody has called me from washington . 
but how did you get on this program ? 
i work at t i . 
you do work at t i ? 
you 're in lewisville . 
i just went by that place . 
we were going to a football playoff game a week or so ago which we lost 
and we went by . 
that 's the first time i 'd seen it . 
it looked really nice . 
a lot of trees there . 
it looked like a sight . 
hang on a minute . 
i do n't think so , 
patty might . 
i 'm back . 
but how did you get on it ? 
my husband works at t i over on central . 
why we 're living in arlington i 'm not so sure 
but , he works over there 
we did it last time . 
so just my daughter and i are registered this time . 
i do n't know , 
they did n't even ask him back . 
that was weird , was n't it ? 
but like i said i hardly ever get any calls this time . 
i do n't get too many . 
and i can never find anybody . 
the first time i used to get calls from far away too . 
like maryland , and new jersey , 
but now it just seems like it 's in the dallas fort worth area that i get calls from . 
i 've had the same experiences , 
all right around here . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know if they could possibly teach a machine to recognize all the different accents . 
there 's so many with this one town . 
even in some families some people talk a little bit different . 
my husband is from new jersey 
and one of his sisters does things that really sound funny to me 
and he does n't pronounce them at all that way , 
and that 's one family ? . 
of course , i think everybody in new jersey sounds a little bit funny 
i agree . 
you know , how that goes . 
i 'm surprised she has n't told us to cut it off yet . 
or overloads 
so end your conversation . 
do you have any more words of wisdom about the subject ? . 
i sure do n't . 
you do n't have any kids you want to send over here ? . 
no kids . 
i do n't know if mine would want to go live in the ghetto . 
one of them is real idealistic , 
she might . 
i 'd be more suited to that than her 
she 's just bugs , 
i think that gets us off to discussing the topic for tonight . 
which is movies , 
correct ? 
that is correct . 
are you a movie buff ? 
i do n't like going to see them in the theaters 
but outside of that , rent a lot , watch them on t v mostly . 
i have a v c r 
and i see most all of mine there . 
what have you seen recently that you enjoyed ? 
i do n't know , 
actually earlier tonight we were watching to live and die in l a . 
have you seen that movie ? 
i have n't . 
it 's kind of one of those psycho ones . 
i live alone . 
consequently , i do n't like these psycho things . 
it 's not too bad . 
one of those cop thrillers 
do you have a v c r ? 
we do . 
have you seen the movie class action with gene hackman ? 
i have n't yet . 
i saw it this weekend 
and it is to me an outstanding movie . 
i thoroughly enjoyed it . 
he is an attorney 
and his daughter is an attorney 
and she has a suit against his company . 
it 's one of those things . 
it 's something that anyone can watch and enjoy . 
he 's a good actor though . 
beg your pardon ? 
gene hackman 's a good actor . i think . 
he is . 
do you see hoosiers ? 
i 've seen hoosiers . 
actually we saw her just the other night too . 
did you ? 
it 's one of our favorite movies . 
i live with a roommate and my girlfriend the three of us . 
we 've seen that movie probably six times in the last six months . 
have you seen the movie crossing delancy ? 
that 's one i have watched six or eight times . 
i always feel so good when i get through with that movie . 
i like those movies that you watch time and time again . 
i do too . 
dirty dancing and crossing delancy are two of my favorite . 
what business are you in ? 
i 'm an electrical engineer . 
in new hampshire . 
i work in massachusetts actually . 
is everything going all right up there ? 
it 's only about half an hour . 
i live on the border . 
that 's that bad then . 
half an hour , we do that just going to downtown dallas . 
that 's right . 
we live up in tax free new hampshire and drive down to massachusetts to work . 
that makes a lot of sense . 
are you a native of that part of the country ? 
i grew up in new hampshire . 
it seems , southern town , 
it 's called portsmouth . 
it 's fifteen minutes from the mass- , border and five minutes from the main border . 
we live right in the corner . 
that one little spot in new hampshire , we have ten miles of coastline , 
i live on that little ten mile spot . 
sounds wonderful . 
did you have damage this year with hurricanes ? 
not up where i live 
but further down the coast in massachusetts they got hit pretty bad . 
i happened to be in nassau 
and we got the backlash of that thing . 
and they had record high waves , thirty year high waves come in there , 
and it was quite an experience 
what movies are you looking forward to seeing now ? 
i 'm only twenty-seven years old 
so the doors movie , that 's out on video . i want to watch that . 
have you seen green card ? 
that would be pretty good . 
i have n't seen that one . 
that 's a real warm movie . 
it really just turned out nicely . 
so i would recommend that if you have a chance . 
i 'm in for it . 
we rent a lot of movies 
so we often sit around and say , what movies should we rent ? 
and we do n't know . 
if you can get green card , go for it . 
we 'll try that one . 
i have been working as an accountant at the medical school here in dallas 
and i have watched gross anatomy . 
have you seen that one ? 
i did . 
and i do n't know 
i can associate with some of the people in that movie because of the young students i see over at the medical school . 
but i hope you have a very merry christmas . 
you too . 
i 'm looking forward to it . 
i think we 're going to have a white christmas up here just like the song says . 
the way , 
i 'll go ahead and start 
the way i dress for work this year , nineteen ninety-one has been really suit and tie , 
or i should n't say suit , but coat and tie every day . 
a year ago , i changed jobs from being a researcher to doing marketing for the research group . 
i guess it 's a different set of standards . 
so i dress almost the same every day . 
pretty much it 's a white shirt and slacks and shoes and a coat . 
but , it was very different before . 
how do you dress ? 
i 'm a drafter , 
so i just wear blue jeans and tennis shoes 
and i have sweatshirt on today . 
and that 's pretty much the norm for me . 
if i come in in a dress , everybody 's shocked . 
i understand . 
they ask me what are you doing in a dress 
and it 's usually i have n't done my laundry lately . 
ran out of jeans . 
i understand , 
that 's funny . 
so , does it change ? 
your dress , 
do you have things like presentations to do or anything like that ? 
so , back in my old job , up until through nineteen eighty i would usually wear blue jeans and pullover shirts and the like , 
but , probably once a month or so , there was some reason that i would have to put on a suit . for a customer presentation or something . 
every now and then i 'll get dressed up and come in , 
but that 's for my husband 's job and not mine . 
i see , 
i understand . 
i have to go to a business meeting once a month with him , 
. that 's interesting . 
let 's see , 
what else about this 
it seems like t i is pretty cut and dried with two or three levels . 
and i guess you are . 
that we dress in the jeans 
and then there 's kind of the branch manager level or marketing people that kind of do that middle thing . 
but there 's not much , 
middle of the road . 
it 's nice that there 's not a requirement for it . 
sometimes i think there should be . 
some of these women around here look like they came off of harry hines . 
i guess you see those once in a while . 
and they have the no shorts deal , 
and some of these mini skirts are worse than shorts ever thought about being . 
but i guess that 's one of the things you got to put up with when you do n't have a dress code . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
is n't there a dress code , something about spaghetti straps , 
i 'm not even sure what they are . 
supposedly and backless things 
backless , 
but , i 've seen those , too , 
so this was n't necessarily a big conversation , 
but , i think we did it . 
and your name was lisa . 
lisa . 
are you the expressway sites ? 
i am , 
and i work in the north building . 
thank you . 
thank you . 
i have n't talked to anybody outside the metroplex , 
so i did n't even think of saying arlington , texas . 
this is a real first . 
are you at work ? 
i am . 
i 've been trying to get people at five thirty and six thirty in the evening 
and i thought , i 'm not having any luck , 
i 'll try the middle of the afternoon . 
i 'm happy we got through . 
i am , too . 
do you have any opinion on the subject ? 
i 'm especially interested with what 's happening in the soviet union , 
the , ukraine 's vote basically to secede and set itself up independently is quite a remarkable , counts , 
democracy . 
is that reported in the texas papers ? 
we hear a little of the news . 
i have heard about that the last couple of days . 
how big is the ukraine , the area , 
do you know ? 
or a population or anything , 
i 'm really uninformed . 
i 'm afraid i do n't have the statistics in front of me . 
, it 's not a tiny area . 
it 's not as big as california proportionately . 
but it 's more significant , in the sense of , it 's a great agricultural region . 
i see , 
i did n't really know that , 
i know a lot of their countries that they had overtaken wanted to be independent or several of them , 
and what about astonia , 
they 're completely out now . 
i thought they were . 
the three baltic republics got out as quickly as they could . 
but , the ukraine is especially significant because of the agriculture ? 
it 's very important for the economics of the soviet union . 
so there were probably really . 
except they ca n't fight . 
they do n't , 
it 's done democratically , 
and bush has already given his opinion on it ? 
did n't i read that ? 
i do n't know , anymore . 
i fear for the russians from what i read , 
i wonder how they 're going to get through the winter . food wise or any wise , 
sounds to me like they 'll start rioting soon not that that would do any good , 
but i guess people do that when they 're desperate . 
that 's true , 
has n't happened here for a while , 
that 's true , 
since the depression , when the veterans went to washington 
and the war riots , of course . 
let 's just hope we do n't get to that point . 
things are not so good in texas job wise . 
i hear you have some problems . 
we do . 
we have lots and lots of layoffs here . lot of companies folding , lot of layoffs 
and it 's pretty scary . 
do you blame the government in washington for this ? 
i do n't understand economics that well . 
i do n't know , 
i know that we have a terrible situation with foreign trade and that other countries put a lot of restrictions that we do n't 
and so i assume that that has a great effect . 
and they said during the reagan-bush years , the rich got richer , 
the poor got poorer , 
the statistics prove that 
then , you think it 's reagan and bush have done this 
or is it just coincidence it was during this period ? 
i really do n't know . 
i think maybe they contributed to it . 
maybe they should pay more attention to the more equalization of the trade . 
of course , if somebody in china can make something for ten cents and we have to make it for ten dollars because we have unions i do n't know what 's going to happen then . 
the chinese use slave labor , too . 
that 's one of the ways they get away with it . 
and child labor . 
i do n't know . 
what do you think has caused our horrible situation ? 
i do n't think there 's any one simple answer to the whole thing . 
one thing . 
that 's very complicated . 
they say , too , that having a democratic congress and republican president is not good . 
i 've read that is a theory . 
which one are we going to throw out ? 
i hate to say it , 
but , i 'm tending to go straight back into my original democratic party . 
texas used to be a democratic state , did n't it ? 
i know , 
it used to , 
you do n't want too many democrats anymore 
and for a while i kind of deserted the party , 
but now it 's looking better to me . 
i like your governor . 
do you ? 
i 'm glad to hear that . 
she 's an impressive woman . 
i think so , too . 
i just , admire her a lot . 
and i really hope she does well . 
but she 's probably more popular out of the state than she is here , although she did manage to win . 
but look who she was running against . 
anybody could beat claytie in texas . 
he shot himself in the foot so many times . 
how did you get on this t i thing ? 
i know some of the people . 
guess it 's logical to ask , do you exercise any ? 
unfortunately very little . 
much less than what i need to . 
i 'm about the same way , 
i do a little bit . 
my job kind of hinders me from exercising . 
i 'm a night operator here at a industry down here 
and i do n't really get out a lot , to exercise . 
i am an assistant teacher in business technology 
and i think the most exercise i 've gotten in the last three to four month is jumping up and down to go answer the kids ' questions . 
it keeps me pretty busy , 
but it 's not really the kind of exercise that gets your heart rate going . 
exercise is so important . 
it is . 
and i realize that . 
that 's the way i feel . 
i 'm used to being in pretty good shape because when i was in high school i stayed in pretty good shape , played a little basketball and stuff like that , 
now , i 'm in college 
and i go to school during the day and work at night . 
i can tell that i 've not really done a whole lot . 
when you exercise , what do you do ? 
do you do it at home or a club 
i usually play at home . 
we live out in the country 
so me and my brother play basketball and have a bunch of guys come over and play 
or a lot of times we 're up at the church 
we 'll play volleyball 
stuff like that . 
i got a hold of richard simmons ' tape 
really ? 
what is it , 
i ca n't even think of the name of it right offhand , with the oldies . 
the sweating to the oldies ? 
sweating to the oldies , 
and that 's not bad . 
that 's pretty upbeat , 
so every once in a while i 'll put the cassette in and go with it . 
not often enough to have a routine . 
my little schnauzer wishes i would get out and walk with her . 
but i do n't know , 
by the time i get home , all i want to do is just collapse or sit down at my computer 
and my fingers exercise more than anything now . 
that 's the way i am . 
i just want to sit down and relax . 
too tired to exercise . 
i did . 
do you ever ride a bike or anything like that ? 
i started riding my bike about a couple of months ago 
and i 'd ride about two or three miles a day , 
but it would last about a couple of weeks 
and it got real cold for a little while 
so i gave it up . 
here , about the most common exercise for people is to go to the malls and walk , 
walk around . 
because they 're enclosed 
and no matter what the weather is they can walk at a pretty good clip and not have to worry about the weather summer or winter . 
i 've noticed people doing that down here , too . 
i 'll be in town or something 
and people will walk around the mall . 
and it 's safe . 
it is fairly safe . 
that 's inside the mall 
may be not safe going to the parking garage . 
certain parts of it . 
a friend of mine suggested swimming as being the best exercise there is . 
i used to do a lot of swimming , 
we have a swimming pool , 
but it 's an old concrete pool . 
we 've been having trouble with it the past few years , 
so we have n't got to use it much , 
but i love to swim and water ski and stuff like that . 
and the water takes the resistance . 
and you do n't get the soreness . 
i 've done some water exercises , 
but our pool is not heated 
you ca n't do it year round . 
summertime only . 
that 's the way ours is . 
you do n't when it 's twenty some odd degrees , go out to the swimming pool . 
it 's too cold . 
hot tubs are not too bad , 
i could deal with a hot tub . 
those are nice . 
what part of mississippi are you from ? 
i 'm from laurel . 
whereabouts is that ? 
that 's way down towards the south . 
not quite on the coast , 
but we 're about two hours from the coast . 
and you do have cold weather down there ? 
ma'am , 
it started about yesterday , i believe . 
it started raining and got real cold . 
ours started thanksgiving . 
today was pretty , 
but sunday the snow and ice came in . 
and there was no exercise . 
you ready ? 
is that it ? 
that 's it . 
what kind do you subscribe to 
or do you ? 
i did subscribe to people for a long time . 
i enjoy people . 
and now i , subscribe to ladies home journal . 
i take a computer magazine . and also better homes and gardens . 
are you interested in computers ? 
and my pet peeve with magazines is all the little cards inside . and the cardboard pages . 
that would be one of my peeves . 
you have too many recipes first of all . 
that 's what i do n't like about ladies home journal magazines . 
too many recipes , too many can this marriage nonsense . 
i like to read articles about things that matter . 
of course , people magazine is not one of your more intellectual magazines , 
but it 's nice , light reading . 
if i want something intellectual , i usually read a book . 
that 's true . 
i like it when they have short stories . 
redbook used to always have a good short story in it . 
that 's true , 
they did . 
and i have n't bought a redbook in a while , 
i really very rarely ever pick up a magazine anymore . 
is redbook still in existence ? 
i do n't know if they 're around anymore . 
i think it is . 
surely , 
it 's an institution , 
surely it would have to be . 
i 'll tell you , 
it was publisher 's clearinghouse , 
they told me if i did n't subscribe they were going to take me off their list . 
mine , too . 
this was it , my last chance . 
my last chance to win ten million dollars , 
so i figured , look . 
for twelve dollars , 
i went ahead and sent in my subscription because of that to entertainment . 
that 's it . 
and i was real disappointed with it . 
i do n't know , 
not enough stories with some substance that you can really get into . 
it 's little short articles more than anything else . 
and that 's one thing i do n't like about people . 
it does n't seem to have enough story to it . 
i do n't know , 
i just think it 's light reading . 
if you 've only got a short time to read . 
you do n't have to concentrate . 
that 's true . 
it 's entertaining , 
i enjoy it , 
is n't it similar to the tv guide ? 
not really . 
not the one i take now . 
it 's a magazine 
and it goes into all the movies , previewing the movies that are going to be released or behind the scenes . 
i see . 
and i 'm a real movie buff , 
so that 's why i thought i might be interested in it , 
but it just has n't been what i thought it would be . 
and the reason i get the home journal and the computer book is because mother got a subscription for it and sent it to me . 
otherwise , if i really want to take the time to read a magazine and i see one on the grocery shelf , i 'll pick it up then . rather than having them delivered and think , i really need to read this . 
i 'll tell you , 
since i 've been getting the journal maybe i 'll read two , maybe three , 
if i read three articles in , one of the journals , i figure i did really well . 
because there 's just nothing in there that interests me . 
i 'm not into recipes 
i do like recipes and crafts . 
and i 'm not into crafts , 
so that eliminates three quarters of the magazine . 
that 's true . 
i just got the new issue , 
they have bette midler on the cover , 
so that should be one article that i 'll read anyway . 
i said arlington , texas because the other day , i was talking with somebody and he was in arlington , virginia . 
that 's the only one i 've got now for this area . 
anyway , we 've got a easy subject . 
we do . 
you go ahead first , if you 'd like . 
let me think here . 
i have n't been watching much t v lately . 
you get so busy . 
i used to . 
i have one favorite soap opera . i still watch and i tape because i 'm not home . 
and let 's see , 
that 's general hospital , 
and then at night when i sit down , i do n't usually sit down till almost nine o'clock when my kids get in bed 
i know . 
what do i watch at nine o'clock . 
let 's see , 
tuesday nights i guess , we try to catch a couple of the shows that the kids like . 
are they little ? 
i have a seven year old and a ten year old . 
they 're pretty young . 
so we usually catch full house , 
and what 's the one comes on after that . 
it 's a new one , , 
i do n't know , 
my kids are older 
so i do n't know some of those shows now , like i used to . 
other than that . i watch knots landing on thursday nights , for pure entertainment , nothing else . 
, i like the comedies . 
they 're just light , too . 
i have to watch murphy brown 
now that is a good one . 
i make a point of that . 
that is . 
if i 'm home on mondays , then i definitely watch her . 
i love that 
and i really like coach . 
i think when it 's good , it 's just a scream . 
he 's a good actor . 
he really is good . 
he 's probably playing himself . 
half the time you see these people on an interview show , they act just like they do in their parts . 
i saw him on johnny carson once 
and he acted about the same . 
he could very well be . 
do you watch much t v , 
i watch more now because i had been going to school for years and have really been too busy 
but this semester i 'm only taking one course 
and so i see murphy brown and coach and the wonder years . 
i just make a point of seeing those . 
i never see that . 
i 've got a friend that says that is just wonderful show . 
it 's fabulous . 
really , you should never miss that . 
they are just gems of shows 
really , fabulous in every way . 
nice . 
what night is that on now ? 
that 's wednesday at seven thirty . 
wednesday at seven thirty , 
wednesdays i go to church choir , 
so . that 's my one night out and about , 
maybe your husband could tape it for you sometime . 
just so you get the idea . 
it would n't take much to get hooked on those . 
i watch those . 
are there any new ones this year that came out that you like 
we started watching northern exposure . 
it 's not really new , 
but it 's still kind of new . 
how 's that ? 
i have n't seen that . 
i like it a lot . 
it 's real different . 
in fact , they never thought it would be a hit . 
they 'll have some things in there almost , supernatural , or something , , 
somebody will see a figure from the past that nobody else does 
or it sounds weird , 
but , it 's very unique show and very well done . 
excellent actors . 
i 'll have to watch for that . 
it came on after something we used to watch 
and i guess we just kept sitting there 
and now we make a point of watching . 
i ca n't take all these shows on because next semester i 'm not going to be able to watch hardly any television . 
then , it will be mostly reruns , i guess . 
and by the end of february , the way they do it nowadays . 
we used to watch a lot of designing women , 
but i have n't seen that much lately . since they got rid of delta burke and brought on the new ones . 
i 've seen that . 
was she the best one ? 
was she the best one on that old show ? 
she was just funny . 
she was really funny . 
and her character was good . 
i do n't know that it was her in particular but just the character . 
they had a big fight on that show , did n't they ? 
they were all accusing each other of everything in the world . 
that was awful 
and who knows still , what really happened , . 
i know , 
you never will , probably . 
i think the latest soap opera for people is the kennedy trial for those who have cable . 
i know . 
i do n't have cable . 
we do n't have that station either , 
so i have n't been able to catch any of that , 
but just what little we caught on the news . 
it 's just as wild as any soap opera , from what i hear on the news . 
i know it . 
and i think he 's guilty as the devil . 
i do n't see how he could n't be , . 
i know , 
what 's in it for her . 
there 's never anything for you to go to trial as a witness in a case like that . because you know they tear you to shreds , especially those rich high powered lawyers . 
that 's right . 
and they said this lawyer is unbelievable . 
but , they said she held up so well yesterday . 
i know , 
everybody was saying that 
and then the paper said it 
so , it should be interesting . 
i was reading that in the supermarket line . 
i never have the nerve to buy the thing . 
do you watch any sports or anything like that 
i do n't care anything about that . 
because i do n't either . 
i ca n't watch it on t v , 
i like the ice skating , , 
occasionally , some ice skating will come on , on a sunday or during the olympics 
i always watch that . 
i think it 's so beautiful . 
i like to catch the gymnastics sometimes , too . 
that 's good . 
go ahead . 
we 're going to compare notes . 
i often desire to exercise , often believe i should and rarely do . 
do n't do it . 
i tell you , i firmly believe in exercising . 
i do it every day on a regular basis . 
what sort of regiment do you have ? 
i just got back from biking twelve and a half miles , 
but this time of year , you ca n't get much biking in . 
but every morning i use this president 's council of physical fitness 
and it 's worth doing , 
and you can do it anywhere . 
i travel quite a bit in my business , 
and you can do it wherever you 're at 
i do it every morning usually after breakfast before i take a shower and get dressed to go to work . 
i 've done this for fifteen years , 
so you do n't start at this kind of regiment . 
so , what i 'm telling you is n't something you go out and do 
and you 'll hurt yourself . 
it takes me about fifteen minutes to do this now because i do it all the time , 
but i do twenty-five where you have your arms above your head and your body twisters touch left and right toe 
and i do ten right and left trunk twisters . 
and i do about sixty leg thrust type things . 
and i do twenty leg lifters on each side when you 're laying on the floor . 
and then i do fifty push-ups and do a hundred sit ups 
you do all of this in fifteen minutes ? 
prone type things , where you 're kind of rocking on your stomach type thing , 
and that takes maybe about thirteen minutes in the morning . 
what keeps you doing that . 
i sometimes start much more modest efforts , 
but i give up , 
i just find them boring . 
hard to find the time for it on a given day 
years ago i used to referee football 
and to stay in condition , i did that just as a normal basis , 
example , this summer i was about fifteen pounds heavier than i wanted to be 
i do three hundred sit ups a day now , but not in the morning , 
i do a hundred then 
and then i do about a hundred before supper and about a hundred before i go to bed . 
i lost fifteen pounds just by doing that because you tighten your stomach muscles 
and you can eat anything you want , drink anything you want , 
but you do n't , 
within reason you can lose weight or maintain your weight and your physical being 
i think it 's really important . 
whenever i do it , i feel good that i have done , good because it seems right and good because it has good effects . 
but it 's this maintaining a regular habit that i just ca n't seem to do . 
i like biking 
and during the summer , i 'll do at least seventy-five miles a week and when i really was doing it maybe a hundred and fifty , 
there 's excuses , weather 
or you do n't have time or something like that . 
but if you do some basic exercises and you say every morning , just like brushing your teeth you 're going to spend fifteen minutes or a half hour . 
and you get up a half hour earlier 
and once you start getting into that , one , you just feel good 
and you look a whole lot better . 
does your wife participate in any of this 
unfortunately not , 
and there 's no way i can get her to . 
it 's something you either just really want to do it or you ca n't talk anyone into it . 
if you do n't like to exercise it is n't going to happen . 
i sure wish she would . 
she 's unfortunately overweight , 
but she 's a wonderful woman 
and no sense getting in arguments with anybody , about it . 
i keep saying if somebody else would do it with me , little bit of peer pressure would help considerably . 
but you seemed to have solved that problem without any external help . 
no problem at all . 
and if you get one of these mats go to a store , they normally have these exercise , things , these a b c -s of physical fitness on them . 
one of my kids got me one of those for christmas one year 
what 's this mat , 
it 's just an exercise mat that rolls up so you can put it up just in the corner . 
is it like the sort of thing you take on a camping trip and sleep on it . 
you can do that . 
it 's that kind of half inch of foam or something . 
it 's a foam thing , 
and it 's just about six feet long , rolls up 
and i do n't take it on trips with me . 
you could , 
if i do sit ups , i 'll throw a towel down or something , 
for n i s t , the national institute of standards and technology . 
so it 's right up your alley , then . 
i suppose so . 
let me push the button . 
i guess i 'm supposed to be all for switching to the metric system , 
but i sense that it 's not going to happen anytime soon . 
i do n't think it 's going to happen either , 
but i wish it were 
because i got my bachelor 's in mechanical engineering . 
i 'm at grad school now in acoustics 
and all we do is metric stuff . 
you 're now in what ? 
acoustics . 
acoustics . 
so everything 's metric 
and then you go to read some order book or something 
and it 's all confusing 
so i do n't understand as much , 
so i think we should get one adopted permanently . 
i guess that is the policy , 
but it 's been the policy for a long time 
and nothing ever happens . 
i suppose some things happen slowly simply by having it taught in the schools more to the extent that that 's happening , having a new generation come up that 's more used to it . 
a lot of industry out there is doing metric stuff because they have to . 
they have to for international trade . 
but , i guess it 's easier to switch back and forth than it used to be because of computers coming into everything . 
i do n't think switching back and forth is that big a deal . 
i think people need to understand more what a meter is , instead of how many feet in a meter or something . just get used to using all the terms . 
because someone says a kilogram , 
no one knows what that is . 
everyone wants a conversion of that before kind of recognizing it as a concept to hold in mind . 
i do n't see that , it can change it very quickly . 
we 're not the kind of society that something can be posed upon by government will . 
no one seems to be adopting it . 
metric system , no one wants it at all seems like . 
the public is just very conservative that way in refusing to change measurement systems money , dollar , coins , anything like that . 
and it obviously makes no sense that we 're practically alone in the world in using the old system . 
it 's pretty tough when you get everything confused , though . 
i think two systems is worse than one , though . 
because we do a lot of problems and things 
and they 're half english and half metric 
and you make more mistakes doing all the conversions than you would doing the problems . 
i prefer metric , 
but even if it 's english , they should just have one . 
i think so . 
your average guy jogging down the highway wants to know how many miles it is to his destination . 
there are things you could do . 
we have signs up on the n i s t campus here , speed limit twenty-five miles per hour , forty kilometers per hour . 
but that has n't been adopted very widely . 
they have some of those in ohio . 
there 's this one sign 's kind of funny . 
it says metric signs next hundred miles . 
and no one will go a step further to remove the english signs . 
that would force everybody to use it . or to quit selling tape measures in inches . 
or , you have highway signs saying speed limit , eighty-five , whatever would be the appropriate number . 
i guess a hundred is sixty-two . 
hundred car is going sixty-two , 
it would be more like ninety i guess , 
car is going fifty-five . 
you suddenly have a even worse problem with speeding than we do now . 
you have a bunch of people trying to do ninety . 
where you are , do the schools emphasize the metric system ? 
in the engineering they all do pretty much . 
i meant down in the elementary schools . 
in the elementary schools . 
i do n't know . 
i would n't think so . 
i remember a ways back we did conversions , 
but we never actually went out and measured anything or did anything on one system . 
i think my children learned the metric system , 
but it does n't get emphasized over the other . 
they learn how many centimeters are in an inch 
and that 's about it . 
advice on son or daughter going to college . 
that 's advice that i will need in time future for my children , rather than one that i have personal experience with . 
i suppose i would ask what the child wants to do in life and what the child hopes to get out of college and what sort of college would best meet those needs . 
let 's see , 
when i went away to school , i 'm trying to think . 
i guess when you 're eighteen or so it would be important to know if it was a coed college . 
that was a strict requirement for me . 
again how serious a person is according to what they want to get out of school , 
i guess they 'd have to consider how expensive the college is and how close to home , if they could handle being away for real long periods of time or if they need to be somewhere where they can drive home when they needed to get home . 
let 's see , 
what was the question , 
what 's the criteria for picking a college ? 
what advice would you give ? 
what advice . 
i guess one clear-cut piece of advice is by all means visit the college campus . 
stay in a dormitory if you can . 
go to classes , 
talk to faculty members and students . 
the northern colleges are very different than the southern colleges , i think . 
the people are different 
and you have to be more flexible and more willing to adjust to other people 's mannerisms and customs or ways of doing things . 
you have to be a flexible person to be able to go all the way across country to something totally different than what you 're used to . 
i 'm thinking what problems my children might have in that , 
you think so ? 
but i agree with you . 
let 's see , 
what else . 
if they 're used to the northern weather then the southern weather they might kind of feel like they need to go out and play all the time , not be in studying . if you 're in florida or california . 
i 'd also advise them that if mom and dad paid for their college , that if they decided to drop a course or decided that they need another year , then they 'd have to get a loan to continue . 
course it is a big factor in having an understanding of how much parents will pay and how much has to come from other sources and your willingness , one , to work during the summer or part time . and two to take out loans to assume debt after college . 
that 's right . 
the responsibility of that . 
and they could work and earn money towards college . 
also if they stay within their state , you get a lot more financial aid 
or it 's a lot cheaper if you stay within your state than if you go out of state to a private school , 
and also maybe then the parents could pay a third 
and then maybe they could take out a loan for a third depending on how expensive it is . 
i have an eleven year old is my oldest , 
so , it 's not too far away , 
mine is twelve . 
but it 's getting there , 
we still definitely can put away the money for college now . 
i would advise that they did not have a car at college . 
that 's my gut feeling , too . 
my son is certainly not persuaded of that . 
i 'm here . 
i did n't have a car in college . 
i think it 's more a burden to provide for . 
i think so , too . 
i think because most kids do n't have a car at college , the ones that do get taken advantage of 
and i think it 's just trouble waiting to happen . 
so i would advise they did n't take a car and , they did n't take a television 
and they did n't take a refrigerator . 
i did n't do any of those , though , i feel less strongly about the t v -s and refrigerators . 
let me see , 
what have you seen lately ? 
city slickers , and star trek five . 
five ? 
only five ? 
i thought i 'd better see that one before i go and see six . 
did n't need to . 
i found that out . 
how about yourself ? 
i just saw the latest one . 
how is it ? 
it was fantastic . 
i ca n't wait . 
the lines in there were just perfect . 
it was classic trek . 
does the old star trek guys meet the new guys ? 
it 's just the old guys still . 
it was just a rumor that that would happen this time . 
however , the rumor is that it will happen next time 
that they said they were n't going to do anymore . 
that was it . 
except that the rumor is that they still might , 
but it may not include the entire crew 
and it will be a next generation meets this generation . 
i 'm not sure what the difference in light years between the new generation and the old guys was . 
i think it 's a hundred years . 
somewhere in that range . 
considering that spock was on couple weeks ago and that the very first episode of next generation , they had mccoy . 
that 's right . 
is that right ? 
he was a doctor still ? 
he was rear admiral , whatever , 
and he just kind of hobbled down the halls real slow . 
vulcans age a lot better . 
he did n't look too bad , did he ? 
matter of fact , he looks about as old and the next generation as he does in the latest star trek . 
imagine that . 
that 's amazing . 
but , did they have some pretty good special effects ? 
excellent , excellent special effects . 
but i think the script was just incredible compared to the last one . 
the script was bad , bad , bad . 
you know why ? 
i do n't . 
why ? 
william shatner wrote it . 
is that right ? 
and even worse , he directed it . 
leonard , nimoy , he does a lot better . 
in fact he did n't direct this one . 
he produced this one . 
but he directed the one before star trek four , something like that . 
, journey home , i think that was . 
you 're a real life trekkie ? 
i think so . 
i really like them . 
i would n't go so far as being a trekkie , 
i 've gone to one for real live trek convention 
i saw james doohan the guy that plays scotty . 
did you get to talk to him ? 
it was crowded . 
not in a crowd like that . 
it was want an autograph , want to stand in line for about four hours . 
it was a pretty crowded place . 
they have some good management principals in this new generation . 
it 's kind of funny . 
i was reading in a book . 
trying to think , 
i ca n't quite remember the name of the book , 
but it was saying do n't do star trek management style . 
and they were referring to captain kirk , 
every time he left the enterprise , everything went to hell . 
and nothing got righted until he got back up on the ship . 
so he kind of was a cowboy type , too . 
made all the decisions 
but jean luke does more of a , committee type of management . 
it 's definitely a lot better . a lot more realistic really . 
what other movies have you seen ? 
saw the addams family last week . 
how was that ? 
it was pretty good . 
there were a few things different than the old series , 
but on the whole , it was pretty similar . and , a lot of fun . 
lots of little funny spots . 
did they have thing 
in fact , thing has a much bigger role than he does in the series . 
there is lots of areas where thing saves the day . 
and he runs around a lot . 
i 've always wondered how he gets around . 
just finger hopping . 
but he 's in a box ? 
in fact , it 's funny . 
he never does come in out of a box . 
he was just kind of walking around . 
did n't he used to ? 
not really . 
he was always in the box before . 
that 's , okay . 
that 's what i was thinking . 
what do you feel are some of the main problems ? 
i 'm in an urban area . 
i 'm in dallas . 
and we 're finding that crime is going up very quickly and has become a major problem even a more major problem . 
drugs seems to be related to quite a bit of the crime we have now . 
there is a lot of theft , a lot of assault dealing with people trying to get money for drugs . 
and i think that 's a national problem , though . 
it 's pretty bad here , too . 
it 's not unique , 
we 've had a lot of murders drug related and stuff . in durham , which is right next to raleigh . 
we 're pretty close to the golden triangle , are n't you ? 
durham , raleigh , and chapel hill is the triangle . 
research triangle and all of that . 
and i 'm sure you have a lot of students there and a lot of researchers 
so you may have perhaps a little better economic climate , 
but , in all your cities now , it seems like there is a crowd that 's really effected by this bill . 
and i 've seen more in durham than i have in raleigh or chapel hill . 
chapel hill is kind of a ritzy city or whatever . 
i 'm sure there is problems with it , 
durham has probably got the worst . 
they 've had forty-eight murders since the beginning of the year . 
and over half of it has been drug related . 
. here i 'm not sure how many dallas has had . 
houston is averaging about two a week or three or four , 
i do n't know . 
a number every week . 
dallas is having quite a few . 
seems like most of ours are occurring in late at night or , like i say , drug related . 
i guess the other thing that are causing a lot of the crime now is the decrease in values . 
seems like a lot of people do n't hold human life quite as high as perhaps they used to . 
and the economy is so bad 
and so many people have been laid off and stuff . 
the economy is lousy . 
they 've done special stories on the local news here . 
we had a lot of bank robberies and lot of break ins and stuff . 
it 's a pretty nice neighborhood 
and this lady was going to work , 
she came home 
and everything in her house was total gone , light fixtures , everything . 
and nobody thought any different , 
they just thought she was moving . 
it was a moving man pulled right up to her house , broke in and stole everything she owned . 
that really takes someone who is bold to do that . 
it 's pretty bad . 
do you find that security is very good in a town home ? 
i would say so for the majority in my little section of the neighborhood because there is always somebody at home 
and we all know one another 
and , on our one little section of the street we all know one another and know that we 're not moving and different things like that . 
i 'm probably one of the youngest people that live over here . 
i see . 
most people are , retired 
or , they 're in their forties or whatever . 
and i 'm in my twenties , 
so i 'm out more than they are , 
but they 're at home at night , 
so i really do n't worry about anything . 
i think you hit on one point there is you know each other . 
i 'm in a neighborhood where we try to keep up with everything . 
i guess you would say the neighborhood road , it runs between the high school and the commercial districts 
and i 'm over the northeast part of dallas . 
it 's in a nice neighborhood . 
the houses here before the recession were running two hundred thousand or so 
and , course , everything 's down ten to twenty percent now . 
that 's the same thing here . 
one thing that effects us is we have apartments that are probably about a half mile away 
and now the economy is bad , 
they have trouble keeping those full 
they 're not nearly as selective as they used to be . 
and , course , that 's kind of like a cancer in an apartment complex . 
you start letting that happen 
and they go down 
and then before you know it you have drugs and a lot of other things 
so i 'm sure that aggravates it also . 
how is the weather out there ? 
it 's really cold 
and supposedly for this time of the year it 's unseasonably cold 
and they 've gotten more snow than they 've ever had . 
you have , breaking records for coldness and all that kind of stuff . 
how about you guys ? 
. it 's about same . 
the usual , i think . 
nice for skiing and all that kind of stuff . 
it 's good . 
the weather , let 's see , 
the snow here is different from utah 's , 
because i have lived in utah for like ten years . 
what part ? 
provo . 
i was going to b y u . 
and the snow is really cold . 
it 's really humid 
so it seems wetter or something like that . 
it 's more humid in utah than there ? 
or there ? 
it 's more humid in iowa than utah . 
and it seems like when the winds blow , it goes right through you . 
it 's really different from utah 's weather . 
i thought utah was cold , 
but i think iowa is a lot colder . 
that 's how it is in texas , too 
because when it 's cold , it 's really cold . 
i do n't think there is any mountains to stop the wind . 
what 's that ? 
i do n't think there is any mountains to stop the wind . 
so the humidity is what does it . 
i think that 's true . 
because i noticed when i got here , too , 
when it would snow in texas we 'd be really cold 
and we 'd have to get really warm , 
and here you can almost not even wear a coat outside when it 's snowing 
and you do n't feel super cold . 
that 's true . 
it was weird . 
so how long ago did you graduate ? 
or did you , 
i graduated in nineteen eighty-seven . 
my husband got his doctorate at b y u , 
and so he just graduated this past year . 
so you just barely moved away ? 
we really miss utah . 
do you like it out there ? 
we miss the mountains . 
you do ? 
because it 's really flat here . 
not flat , but hilly . 
but no big mountains or anything . 
so you just moved away a year ago ? 
in august . 
really recent . 
but what else can i say about the weather . 
today was warmer . 
it was forty-five . 
warm . 
so , what 's the temperature today over there ? 
it 's probably fifty , fifty-five , maybe . 
maybe not that warm . 
it 's not that cold , really . 
and whenever i remembered the weather reports in utah , i never really remember them talking too much about wind chill . 
but they talk about wind chill here all the time . 
that 's a big deal in texas , too . 
they said it could be , like , six degrees out and negative forty-one wind chill . 
so , that 's what we 're not used to . 
that 's true . 
that makes a big difference . 
so , did you used to ski when you were out here ? 
what 's that ? 
did you used to ski when you were in utah ? 
i 've only skied in utah once . 
i only skied once my whole life . 
but , do you do a lot of skiing there ? 
not tons , 
but i like to when i get a chance . 
i 've only been once so far , but had the opportunity a couple times since then . 
just saving my money for christmas things and that . 
so is this your first year in utah ? 
this is actually my third year . 
and you 're going to school there ? 
at u of u , 
at b y u . 
but , i 'll be here a long time , at this rate . 
what 's your major ? 
it was nursing , 
but i 'm in the process of changing it right now . 
because it 's really , really competitive at b y u . 
you have to have a three seven to get in 
that 's true . 
i 'm going to look into some other fields . 
all the science classes and that , i 'm just not really enjoying too much 
so i think i better get into something that i can enjoy the process of going to school 
that 's a good idea . 
did you graduate in a certain field 
education . 
i got a double major . 
elementary and special ed . 
that . 
you might know her . 
here name is lori , bird . 
maybe not . 
i think she graduated around then , too , though , eighty-seven probably , 
there are so many girls in all my classes , 
i ca n't remember how many people . 
because they , since stopped that program where you can get it double pretty easily . 
have they ? 
how do you feel about capital punishment ? 
i just last friday got off a capital murder case . 
you did ? 
i was on the jury . , 
which is funny because i got called last night and the topic was something about juries . 
so i am just hitting it right . 
how do i feel about it ? 
i do n't know . 
i guess it is right in certain cases . 
i was an alternate on the case , 
so i do n't know what was decided . 
they are probably still in deliberations on it . 
once i was declared an alternate and i was dismissed , we met with the judge , 
the two alternates did . 
and he went on to tell us how they happened to catch this guy 
and i remember hearing about it . 
it was about a year ago . 
he was involved in another capital murder the very next month 
they drove up , 
the police drove up just as he fired the gun and killed the guy . 
so he was caught 
i 'm not in dallas county , 
i 'm pretty far north of dallas . 
county i live in the past ten years only had two capital murders . 
and last year there were six 
and this guy is indicted on three of them . 
so you have to wonder . 
if he 's going to be drastic , somebody has to be drastic back . 
although it 's not really revenge because it does n't mean anything to him . 
he has no concept of what he has done . 
from what i can tell . 
i did n't talk to the guy or anything , 
but he does n't seem to have any regard for anybody 's life including his own . 
no remorse whatsoever . 
i guess in cases like that , where the guy would , obviously , go out and do it again you 've got to do something . 
i was interviewed by four attorneys for about five hours . 
i was the ninety eighth person they 'd interviewed . 
you 're kidding . 
but at the time when the guy kept saying could you ever convict someone and do you think you 'd ever know beyond a doubt 
and i said i ca n't imagine , 
i said if i knew beyond a doubt or if i felt beyond a doubt that he had done it i guess i could convict him , 
but i ca n't imagine you ever making me that sure of something . 
but they really did . 
it was really amazing . 
that was a subsequent case that we did n't know about . and those jurors do n't know about . 
but this particular case they had a complete confession from the guy with a lot of things that the police had n't released 
so no one else would have known . 
it was really pretty interesting . 
educational . 
i guess cases like that , i do n't see why they would n't bring in the new evidence from the other case . 
they can , in the punishment phase but not in the guilt or innocence because he has n't been found guilty of it . 
of that crime 
although , it 's not going to take much to prove that . 
that works . 
they pushing the death penalty ? 
this guy is up for the death penalty . 
and in texas there is a couple of questions you have to ask in the punishment phase . 
for example , was the guy provoked 
and was the response reasonable given the provocation . 
and there is a number of questions 
and just depending on whether you say yes or no you can give him capital punishment 
and if you 're up to the point where he still qualifies for capital punishment , then you can look at mitigating circumstances . 
so there is a lot of outs , 
but the only result is , otherwise he gets life in prison . 
and i 'm really kind of against life in prison anyway because it costs so dog gone much . 
and to me you take away a person 's freedom , you 've taken away most of their life . 
that 's true . 
if you 're going to put him in prison for life with no chance for parole , 
but then you have to look at reality . 
i think normally they may get out 
that 's true . 
but what is it worth ? 
i do n't know . 
personally i do n't know which i would pick if i had a choice for myself . 
that 's true . 
i do n't know whether i 'd stay in prison or not 
you said you 're from mississippi ? 
and do they have the death penalty there ? 
they do . 
they 've had a number of cases here . 
not a whole lot , 
jackson had their sixty-first murder this year . 
it was like last year they had forty-nine 
so that 's going up . 
but 
they have a death penalty . 
i hear of one every now and then . 
and i visited the prison up here at parchman 
they wo n't let you on death row , 
but they 'll let you look down the hall . 
you ca n't see any prisoners 
and it 's kind of a weird feeling . 
they took us around on a tour , 
and i got to walk in the gas chamber 
and it is kind of a weird feeling knowing you 're sitting there saying , people have died here . 
that 's right . 
is it stacy ? 
angie . 
angie , 
i 'm sorry . 
if you were going to have a dinner party , what would you make ? 
let 's see , 
i like seafood . 
let 's see , 
shrimp , 
steamed shellfish with maybe herbs . 
that sounds good . 
what is , the steamed shellfish you said ? 
and what would that be like , 
i think hors d'oeuvres are good , too . 
and that way , you can have a variety . , 
fresh vegetables would be good 
probably not nachos and dip ? 
and would it be appropriate to drink when you have the hors d'oeuvres ? 
and then when you serve the meal , what type of wine would you have with seafood ? 
all these hard questions . 
what , white wine ? 
that would be my guess . 
and then , dessert . 
i 'm not really a drinker , 
so i do n't know a lot about that . 
something sweet ? 
chocolate , something chocolate . 
you must like chocolate . 
let 's see . 
usually when we have a dinner party , i like to grill . 
you do ? 
so , we might have some cocktails ahead of time and maybe some dip some cheese . 
one of our favorites is to take some philadelphia cream cheese and pour cocktail sauce over the top of it and then get these little canned shrimp and wash them and cool them and then dump them in the sauce and then take crackers 
and then you just dip the cracker in the sauce with the clams and the cream cheese 
and you have a real nice dip that goes good with a cocktail . 
and then i like to barbecue steaks or pork chops . 
and then lot of times we 'll have baked potatoes with them and a salad 
and then i do n't know what we usually have for dessert . 
cake sometimes , 
but that 's what we would do for a dinner party , i guess . 
that sounds good , too . 
but i guess when you talk about dinner party that 's more for when friends come over . 
traditional 
traditional , 
i would n't be the big snotty kind . 
i just really started , learning about that 
and i bought a martha stewart , 
i do n't know if you 've heard of her . 
her cookbook 
and she talks about catering and goes into all that and the different types of parties different types of foods . 
do you work in a setting where you are in the food business ? 
my father owns a restaurant . 
is it in dallas ? 
it 's just a cafe , 
it 's not the same . 
it 's in lewisville . 
you graduated from which high school ? 
trinity . 
trinity , 
and that 's a public school or private ? 
that 's public . 
i have to get to know this area a little better , i guess . 
is your father 's cafe one that you could cater out of ? 
it 's not . 
and he 's not interested in letting his twenty-one year old daughter experiment with it probably . 
let 's see , 
what else for catering . 
let 's see , 
what about hawaiian luau . 
that would be good . 
could have fruits and pineapple , 
let 's see , 
and you could actually go with a chicken if you wanted to . 
i guess we 're supposed to talk about what 's being done about recycling . 
lots ? 
what do you do , now ? 
we have saved our newspapers for years and years because the boy scouts our boys have been involved in have had a huge recycling bin , over at resurrection lutheran church 
so we 've done that for quite some time , 
it 's about a fifth of what it used to be 
so the boy scout troop quit doing it when the city took it over . 
now we just put ours out for the city of plano . 
do you live in plano ? 
i do . 
and i 'm so glad when they brought out those recycling bins . 
have you had yours now ? 
although just about a week ago some of my volunteer mothers that work in the library for me said they had n't gotten theirs . 
that 's why i asked you . 
i guess it does go in cycles , 
and not everyone got theirs right away . 
and i was so relieved because i 've been making a real concerted effort , recycling the aluminum and the newspapers and even got into plastic because wal-mart collected it . 
we used to take ours there . 
my garage was just getting overwhelmed . 
i know . 
and , of course , i did n't go weekly , 
so it became quite a big thing , 
i 'm really glad they do it . 
i do , mostly newspapers and plastic two liter diet coke bottles . and aluminum cans some , 
but i do n't use as many of those . 
i guess the ones that are hard to convince yourself to do are the ones that are really dirty that you have to wash out . 
i found out after washing out many a peanut butter jar that they 're not a recycling number one or two . 
so it was wasting a lot of time . 
wasting all your time and effort and , putting it in there . 
thinking i was safe in buying those jars as far as the environment was concerned . 
but it 's not that hard now that i 've got this system under control . 
got your routine down . 
i guess there are some places in the north , in particular that have a real definite way of encouraging you to recycle 
because they charge you for your garbage pick up by the weight . 
so if you recycle things , of course , then you do n't have all that weight in there . 
i do find that i do n't have as much to throw away because all the bulky things are being tossed in with the recycling . 
that 's right . 
what are some of the things they do n't recycle . 
one thing i thought about the other day were batteries , 
just everyday regular batteries . supposedly leak and contaminate the landfills 
and , yet , what am i going to do when i have a couple double a batteries to toss out . 
probably going to throw them in your trash . 
that 's what happens 
there are places that take car batteries , 
kind of a pain to drive over somewhere special for two little tiny batteries 
but i think the city one could possibly look into that or something . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
when i was home those few days around thanksgiving and the truck came by we all ran out to watch it because we 'd never really seen it pick up our stuff 
and one thing i thought was interesting was that the driver had something on his belt that he scanned across the little bar code on our bin as soon as he took the stuff 
is that right ? 
and he just pulled this thing kind of out of his pocket and just scanned it , 
i do n't know what that was reading it for 
registering our garbage . 
they must be trying to keep track of who is doing it , or what , i guess . 
i do n't know . 
would n't it be nice if you could get a credit back at the end of the year . 
for those who are really cooperating . 
that would encourage it . 
except i know it would just not be cost effective . 
they 've already got all this money out on getting the trucks and hiring people to work them . 
i 'm sure they could n't afford that . 
now there is just one garbage man that comes on the truck instead of two . 
that 's interesting . 
also , slightly off the subject , but our big green garbage thing got stolen . 
it did ? 
and we called the city 
and they brought us a new one 
and they did not charge us . 
and they said that between three and four hundred have been stolen . 
is n't that sad . 
it is sad . 
you know , 
they paid for those things anyway . 
and they must be really expensive . 
or , our taxes do . 
of course , we were hoping we were n't going to have to pay for it 
but what would somebody do with them . 
how do you feel about capital punishment ? 
i 'm not certain that it does a lot of good that it ends up effectively avoiding a lot of the crimes that have capital punishment penalties . 
yet , on the other hand i do n't know , 
seems like it 's the right thing to do . 
a serial killer or somebody goes in and machine guns fifty children in a school yard , 
i do n't know . 
what about yourself ? 
i have the same dilemma , i think . 
it seems right sometimes 
and then other times , you do n't know . 
the arab societies and stuff end up having effective punishments 
and they 're extremely severe . 
i think to a certain degree , the reason that it does n't serve as a deterrent may be because you never know if it 's going to be applied . 
in arab societies . if you get caught stealing , they chop off your hand 
and you walk around the rest of your life with one hand 
and everybody knows exactly what for . 
or there is a good chance you 're going to get off . 
and also , it does n't seem like it does that many harm , 
their life is taken , 
but they 'd spend the rest of their life in jail anyway , 
so i think sometimes they 'd prefer just to get it over with 
so it 's more of the easy way out than making them pay for what they 've done . 
except that the average cost to society of having somebody in jail for all their life is extremely high something , i was amazed at . per year , 
it 's something like twenty thousand dollars per inmate per year . to keep people in jail . 
and it 's sort of a crass perspective on the usage of capital punishment , 
but on the other hand i do n't know if that is that serious that they 're really never going to be out of jail , 
but then again , also , you ca n't bring back lives that have been taken anyway , 
i do n't know , 
i know , 
taking one more life does n't get things back the way they were . 
i do n't know , 
i really do n't know , 
what state are you in ? 
i 'm in texas . 
in dallas ? 
i 'm in austin . 
where are you calling from ? 
right now i 'm in utah , 
but i 'm from plano , texas . 
i see , 
what are the laws like in texas ? 
i guess there is more and more states that are going back to capital punishment . 
texas has had it for a while . 
it 's one of the quickest , 
i think it was outlawed for a while by the supreme court or , the interpretation of the constitution 
and it seems like everybody stopped 
and then once they sort of reallowed it , texas was one of the first to actually implement it again . 
they do it by lethal injection . 
i 'm originally from kansas 
and in kansas also they almost immediately put back capital punishment 
and there they do it by hanging . 
i still remember the movie in cold blood . 
i 'm sure you 're familiar with it , 
but , have you seen the movie ? 
i have n't , 
that way . 
and they do it that way ? 
they show it , 
the movie was made in nineteen sixty-two or something like that 
and so it 's not particularly graphic , 
but on the other hand it 's fairly impressive to watch them walk into the room with gallows . 
it 's kind of a barn like structure . 
i think they 're there , 
i think that capital punishment is , in utah also . 
i 'm not really familiar . 
is that right ? 
are you there in school ? 
i am . 
a long time ago , i remember my dad was telling me this that they do it by a bunch of men have guns 
and one of them has the real gun in it . 
has a real bullets 
and the rest of them have blanks ? 
i certainly would n't want to be the executioner , 
i know that . 
i 've always said that if i had to kill and clean and do my own meat , i think i 'd become a vegetarian . 
i know . 
as long as you 're sort of safely removed from it , it seems not so bad , i guess . 
let 's see , 
what type of car do i want ? 
i 'd like to have a corvette . 
but my weekly wages do n't apply for me to have that kind of car , 
i 'm engaged to get married 
so , i 'll more likely get a car for economic reasons . 
so , to drive back and forth to work is all i 'll need a car for pretty much . 
and we have a truck , 
what kind of a car do you have now ? 
right now i have a eighty-seven cavalier . 
my car is really old , too , 
because i drive out of town a lot of the weekends 
and i would like my next car to have good gas mileage . 
and same here 
a nice car , american made 
and a nice car , but not too expensive , 
because i could n't afford a brand new lamborghini . 
i hardly drive , 
but while we 're talking , 
while we 're talking , my next car , i 'd like to be sporty and nice , 
but it 's expensive 
and then insurance is really high for that , too 
so , something that 's not too sporty because of insurance , then . 
i know . 
that insurance does come into play . 
i forgot about that . 
what kind of insurance do you have up there 
or is it real high up there ? 
mine just got lowered because i just turned twenty-one 
and i 'm not sure really how much i pay . 
my mom 's helping me out because i 'm in college 
so i just give her the money and take her word for it . 
that insurance is high dollars . 
it is , 
and the more expensive the car , the higher it is 
so , unless i win the lottery , i wo n't be driving , anything too expensive . 
i do n't plan on buying a car for many , many years 
i have to make this one last as long as i can . 
what 's everybody drive up there ? 
in kenosha ? . 
in wisconsin , they drive them little four wheelers or four wheel drive 
or , do you all need four wheel drives up there because of snow and everything ? 
we have a jeep with four wheel drive because of the snow , you mean 
it never snows down here , 
we do n't have any snow here now . 
it all melted . 
there is no snow at all . 
we have n't had snow yet . 
we usually only get . 
kind of strange to you all ? 
it is . 
it 's seventy degrees here right now . 
do n't tell me that . 
how cold is it there ? 
actually , it 's been warm , 
it 's in the forties . 
and that 's really warm . 
and it 's supposed to rain tomorrow 
i 've only seen snow once this year . 
and it was really bad 
and then it all melted within the week . 
and now there is no snow , 
but what is your dream car ? 
i have n't really thought about it . 
i 'm not too big on cars . 
i do n't know the names and stuff , 
but if i were to go to a car lot and look at them i would pick out one that looked really nice . 
what 's your favorite color ? 
for a car ? 
probably blue . if it was just an average , middle class car . 
blue ? 
but if i were to get a sports car , maybe white or red . 
what kind of car do you drive right now ? 
it 's a sky hawk buick . 
eighty-three , i think . 
eighty-two thousand miles . 
i 'm afraid it 's not going to last me that long 
and i hope it does , though . 
it 's a two door . 
i like smaller cars . 
i find them more comfortable to drive . 
does everybody have their windows tinted up there ? 
i do n't see too many cars tinted . 
everybody has tinted down here . 
i 'm sure , 
i could see why . 
you been down here before ? 
did you like it ? 
it was busy . 
it 's different i bet . 
it was nice . 
i remember swimming on easter day 
and it was really cold up here , 
but came back with a little tan , 
so that was nice . 
we 're supposed to talk about vacations . 
what kind of vacations do you like ? 
i have n't been to many places , 
but i have a opportunity to go to paris , france with my friend in april . 
her family lives there , 
and she 's only been there once . 
her grandmother lives there 
so i 'm praying i get to go . , 
that 's great . 
it will be probably the most exciting place i 'll ever get to go . 
have you ever been to new mexico ? 
actually . 
why , 
have you ? 
i was curious . 
i was just wondering what it was like . 
tahiti ? 
tahiti , 
haiti . 
haiti . 
where is that ? 
it 's in the caribbean 
and it 's the western half of an island , 
with the eastern half that 's the dominican republic . 
and i was down there with a program from the college that i went to where we would just spend three months in a foreign country , most of them third world countries . and study the language and then do a little service project . 
that turned out to be a really good experience for me . 
what did you do when you were in europe ? 
i went there when i was in high school , actually 
and i mostly went to germany and visited some friends of my family and hung out with them , worked a bit on one of their farms and also went to a youth camp . 
what did you do on the farm ? 
not that much . 
i was n't a great asset to them or anything . 
but i drove a tractor , helped them weed beets and that sort of thing . 
and i went to a youth camp that included working at an old people 's home 
and that was pretty interesting . 
and while i was there i visited my aunt and uncle who were staying for their vacation in france in nantes , which is on the west coast right across from england . 
where in france are you , 
paris . 
paris . 
and how long do you plan to be going for ? 
two weeks . 
last time she stayed two months , 
but we 're only going to stay two weeks . 
we 're going to take a cooking class there , 
so that might be fun . 
a what ? 
cooking class , 
french cooking . 
and what else are you planning to do , if anything ? 
museums , 
do you go to museums in europe ? 
actually 
i do n't think i went to any of them . 
the closest thing i did was go to some restored castles and stuff . 
there is some on that west coast of france 
and i went to a vineyard or two in germany . 
that 's neat . 
that was nice . 
have you ever been to hawaii ? 
i have n't . 
have you ? 
i 'm wanting to go there . 
where have you gone first ? 
where have i gone that 's anywhere . 
do you do any recycling ? 
we do here . 
what do we recycle ? 
they have bins 
and they also have centers where you can take aluminum cans and plastic bottles 
and i think that 's all they have . 
what about you guys ? 
there is a lot of things that you can recycle down here , although the only thing i guess i wind up recycling religiously is aluminum cans . 
but we 've got a couple of different places , , 
they 're like unattended aluminum can smashers . 
we 've got one that gives you a penny a can , 
for smashed cans ? 
actually , you have to put them in there unsmashed . 
and when you do that it basically crushes them and then drops a penny down a little shoot . 
can you hold on for just a minute ? 
just succeed . 
i heard it that time . 
you guys only get a penny a can . 
when you buy canned drinks and stuff like that , do they charge you for the deposit ? 
you probably get charged a nickel or something like that . 
and so it 's like they charge you for the deposit , 
so when you turn in the cans unsmashed , you 're just reimbursed . 
type of thing . 
they do n't charge us that extra nickel . 
that 's sort of nice , though . 
it really is . 
really what happens is we just get a penny a can back off the price , if you want to think of it that way . 
so when we get a twelve pack , then that 's twelve cents back . 
so you guys can actually get ahead . 
but they have sort of things that you 're not reimbursed for or paid for . 
we can recycle clear glass , brown glass , green glass . and milk jugs and newspapers , 
everyone does newspapers . 
everybody does newspapers . 
but they said they ca n't be smashed or else it does n't fit in their little containers 
and they 're not reimbursed by the people who are over them or something . 
maybe what we ought to do is start sending unsmashed pepsi cans and whatever up there . 
send it to this address , 
but let 's see , 
i tell you 
what really works at least down here is , if there is even some money basically to take care of the gas to recycle it then people tend to do it . 
in other words , taking care of the environment is all well and good 
but if it 's going to cost you to take care of the environment , they 're not quite as likely to do it as if you get something back for it . 
as likely to do it . 
that 's true . 
so , if there are some energy savings or if there is some significant savings , anything that they can pass on to the consumer , 
it kind of reminds me of using an a t m card to get money or doing your banking . 
if it 's free , people will use it , 
if it costs them something , then they 're not as likely to use it . 
but i know we had a problem down here with people taking oil out of their cars and just putting it down the drain sewer . 
apparently a lot of people every time they change the oil , they just dump all their old oil down there . 
now they 're starting to recycle that stuff . 
that 's good . 
another thing i thought of to recycle would be clothes , because everybody gets rid of their clothes sometime or other . 
and one way that we do it sort of in iowa is that we can take some of our clothes to the consignment shops . 
and that way you do n't get near as much as you bought it for , 
but you got the use out of it 
and what you 're going to basically donate to a goodwill or whatever , anyways , you can get a little bit of money for . 
we 're new to iowa 
so that 's something that i had n't looked into before . 
but that 's one way to sort of get money and still recycle , i guess . 
i guess we 're ready to start . 
what part of the country do you live in ? 
i 'm in dallas , texas . 
what about yourself ? 
i 'm also in dallas . 
the reason that i ask is the two conversations i 've had , have been out of state . 
but have you always lived here in dallas 
i 've lived here for almost five years now . 
i see . 
before that i was at school in rochester , new york 
and i 'm originally from boston . 
you are seeing quite a different climate and quite a different neighborhood . 
that 's right , 
but i like it . 
you probably have enjoyed getting away from the snow . 
i missed it at first , 
but now i go back there 
and i 'm a real wimp about the cold . 
so i like it here . 
it 's nice . 
that 's good . 
i have lived in texas essentially all my life . 
around in texas 
and i have traveled up in the northeast and around and have enjoyed it . 
but i do n't know , 
i 'm not sure i would want to take on those winters . 
i 'm getting older and not sure that 's something i want to do . 
i know . 
i live over in the lake highlands area if you 're familiar with that . 
tell me where that is , 
i probably do know , 
but i do n't know it by that name . 
this is pretty well where l b j and audelia , skillman cross . 
we 're just north of white rock lake . 
i know that area . 
that 's a nice area . 
we have some very nice homes here in this area . 
i guess they want us to describe the area , 
so my particular area , the homes run anywhere from about sixty-five , eighty thousand dollars on up to probably half a million . 
. that 's quite a range . 
the homes that were here earlier were smaller . 
they 've gotten larger and larger as they have developed the land . 
and , of course , it 's pretty static right now 
and all the values over here have dropped off because of the economy . 
how about you ? 
i 'm barely in dallas . 
i 'm just north of addison airport up on the tollway . 
and , i guess we have a similar situation . 
we 've got houses two streets away that are probably around seventy , eighty thousand 
and then we 've got bent tree right across the street 
so i do n't even know how high those go , 
but some of those are pretty big . 
those are over a million . 
so , that 's the strange thing about dallas because back where i 'm from , you would n't have that sort of a variation at all . 
they 'd all be pretty similar to one another within a couple miles . 
we have suffered from real lack of land use planning in dallas . 
not as bad as houston , 
but , exactly what you 're describing is what happens all over . 
i 've noticed that . 
do you live in a zero lot home , 
we 've got a house , 
let 's see , 
we moved in about four years ago 
it had previously been unoccupied , 
but it had existed for three years . 
this is a whole block of homes that a builder built all of them 
and , i guess he did some crazy thing to get some extra money from the bank and then ran away , type of deal . 
so the whole block was all foreclosed . 
and , so , some were vacant for quite a while before they finally sold them because there were so many . 
was your house in good shape , 
was it damaged ? 
the only thing that we were worried about was the air conditioner because they 'd have it just running constantly with the doors and windows open . 
it was ? 
so we bargained to get an extra warrantee on that . 
i see . 
and we have n't had any problems 
and we had originally thought we 'd have to get a fix up special or something because being from the northeast we figured we could n't afford anything . 
but the prices are much lower here 
and this was definitely not a fix up special , 
but i 'll tell you , 
it takes all my time . 
between , we put in our own sprinkler system and i just finished repainting the exterior and making drapes and buying furniture , it 's just a money pit . 
really is . 
i am familiar with that . 
where i live is a house that 's seventeen years old when i bought it . 
and we bought it from someone who was in it , 
but before they had it it had sat empty for the better part of a year . 
and i 'm not sure what happened , 
but i do know the folks that we bought it from had done virtually no maintenance for about four years . 
i found a lot of things , 
we 're set . 
what changes do you feel have happened ? 
i guess the first thing has been for the right , for women to vote . 
i think that has been a major change and also the fact that there are so many more women in the work force nowadays than there were 
and that 's probably going to increase . 
increases each year , does n't it ? 
i 'm sorry ? 
it increases each year i think . 
it sure does . 
there is a lot more women in the work place nowadays . 
and i think women have kind of had in the past the real subservient role . 
role ? 
that 's changing . 
we do to some degree 
but i think it 's not as much as it was . 
i agree . 
it definitely has changed . 
and especially with women increasingly working , they 're going to have to demand more from men . 
because there is just , impossible to keep up on everything else . 
have more of an active role in taking care of children , more of an active role in taking care of the home . 
and i do n't know what the status is on it , 
but women get maternity leave and stuff like that 
and i know that there has been discussion about men also getting maternity leave to help out , 
but i have n't really heard much about that recently . 
there is a lot of companies that wo n't give women maternity leave for that very reason . 
in fact , i know the school districts down here , they do n't have maternity leave . 
you simply have to accumulate your sick leave . and take your sick leave . 
is that right ? 
and i do n't know if bigger company companies do , 
but when i was employed with the school district , i did n't have maternity leave either 
and that was the reason 
because they thought 
that 's interesting . 
that 's a bummer , though . 
it is . 
you got to take the time off . 
you have to save all of your vacation time . 
you do . 
you have to save all your vacation time 
and that 's usually how it 's happened , 
what do you see changing in the future ? 
i think that we 're probably going to see a lot more companies run by females . 
and top level . 
i 'm sorry ? 
maybe top level . 
upper management , 
more women in upper management 
and probably we 'll see more females in political roles . 
more governors and roles like that . 
that would be kind of nice . 
in texas , we have a female governor . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
and we had a female mayor here in dallas , 
and her term just ended 
so i think we 're probably going to see more of that in the future . 
i think that 's probably good . 
a little more integration . 
and maybe not so much that we sit on the back burners 
, 
and that 's fine with me 
i think , 
i 'm not a women 's libber by any means , 
there are issues that as far as equal pay for men and women and that kind of stuff , i totally am for . 
but , i do n't get into the real women libber movement . 
i do n't either . 
i do n't think they 're ever going to prove that men and women are equal . 
we just function differently . 
and i 'm not capable of lifting what a man can lift and that type of thing , 
i 'm sure , in dallas since you 're big places , a lot more women are working right out of their home with their p c 's or with their lap computers or whatever . 
i 've heard of that . 
i have n't really talked to anybody that 's too involved with that . 
like the cottage industry . 
is that what you 're talking about , women working out of their homes ? 
i think it 's wonderful . 
you only have to check in with the office once or twice a week 
course , they 're talking about that we 're going to be able to do our grocery shopping and banking and everything like that , 
by the phone and all that . 
so it would be kind of exciting in some ways to see a little bit more of that 
and some ways , it might be kind of scary . 
think anybody could do it , 
i would n't mind just calling up the grocery store and giving them my order and going an hour later and picking it up . 
but then there is the process of selection . 
would you have to give them the brand 
and when you shop , you usually compare the prices 
would be nice , though . 
i say arlington , texas now because i talked one night to somebody in arlington , virginia . 
and plano , texas rather than plano , illinois . 
do they have one ? 
they do . 
i did n't know that . 
i learned something already . 
let 's see , 
how much time do you spend with your children ? 
very little . because they 're grown . 
what ? 
they 're grown and gone . 
mine is down at u t austin at college 
and the other one is in high school . 
so you do spend less time then ? 
because they almost do n't want to know us . 
they want to be with their friends . 
how old are your kids ? 
are they married or what ? 
i have two married , and then two almost married 
and the other two , i 'm not sure . 
two , for sure are single . 
you have a lot of kids . 
between the spouse and myself we have six . 
that 's kind of nice , though . 
you should n't be lonesome on a holiday ? 
because i came with a split family 
there is so much of them are gone 
and they 're doing their own things 
that 's true . 
they have to see their other parent too . 
and sometimes they want to do their own thing , 
so sometimes it 's just spouse and me . 
i know . 
and you know what ? 
what ? 
sometimes that 's okay . 
i know . 
that 's what my mother said one time . 
because who says that they just got to come over to see us all the time for the holidays . 
that 's true , 
and if they force them to that 's not good either . 
that becomes a drudgery 
let 's see , 
do they all live in the area ? 
of the six , we 've got four around here . 
we 're talking north texas . 
and then , one is in vermont montpelier montpelier , vermont 
and the other one is in everett , washington . 
how did they end up so far away ? 
that 's , my little pair . and my second marriage . 
those are the youngest ones ? 
the fourth and fifth child of the , six are the two that are scattered like that . 
those are a long way . 
and they wanted to go , 
j r , my middle son , fell in love with washington state 
and the , third daughter fell in love with vermont . 
vermont . 
so they wanted to make their homes there . 
that 's where they 've gone to make their homes . 
are those two married ? 
they just working up there or going to school or what ? 
let 's see , 
i guess you 'd say j r is working , trying to go to school . 
i wish to god he would go back . 
they do . especially if they 're meant to , i think . 
i certainly hope so . 
i 've got a daughter that 's a sophomore at u t 
and i 'm going to u t a right now myself 
so it 's never too late . 
i agree it 's never too late . 
especially in some of these schools around here , i think they have about twenty percent older students . 
and when you 're saying older , we 're talking fifty up . 
i 've seen some people that are really quite up there 
they look like in their very late sixties 
and i say that 's great , 
why not . 
why not 
i believe that we , 
and i 'm not in that category quite yet 
but , we are seasoned minds . 
you 're really ready to learn finally . 
i do n't know why i even went to college when i was seventeen . 
it was a complete waste of money . 
we know what we 're wanting to , study 
and we know our limitations . 
and we do n't try to burn the candle at both ends and in the middle altogether . 
we do n't go out drinking beer till three and try to go to class in the morning . 
at seven , 
we 're past that age . 
we 're smarter now . 
we know what we can do . 
so let 's see . 
so mine i do n't spend a whole lot of time because they 're not here . 
what was it , 
and do we approve what other , families do . 
the trends in the families were to spread apart , do your own thing . 
that 's right . 
but i 'm seeing a change that government ca n't do it , 
a change ? 
i was going to say the same thing . 
schools are not able to 
and the family 
are going to have to solve some of the problem . 
those are the two that have the wherewithal 
and , of course , judeo-christianity and the jewish folks , too , believe that the family unit is the one that was given the mission by the lord to do this very thing . 
so when another group of , people step in , try to do it , they 're tromping on our territory , so to speak , 
i firmly believe that , 
they tell you what our topic was ? 
i think golf , is n't it ? 
how much of a golfer are you ? 
are you a hacker ? 
you bet . 
i 'm fifty years old , 
i 've been a hacker , 
i think i played better golf when i was fifteen , john , than i play right now . 
i know i did , 
i know i did . 
course , i know i watch my thirteen year old play now , 
and it 's like they do n't have a muscle in their body . 
i know , 
it 's just unreal . 
if i play a lot of golf , i play six to eight times a year 
and that 's about it . 
i figure that 's my retirement game . 
i come from a family of golfers . 
i was raised by a man , my stepfather who , with a two handicap he could get down on his knees and hit the ball further than most people could hit it . 
my mother who is now seventy-one , i can remember her being a sixteen or a fourteen handicap , 
they 'd leave work and go to a golf course , or a little country club they belonged to back in richmond , virginia and just play nine holes of golf . 
that was their deal , 
that 's what it takes , 
you need to play that often to get a really good handicap . 
but i just never could do it . 
i have a brother-in-law who is an ex-college coach and like a pro 
and he has a very good handicap and plays good golf 
sort of like the non golfer golfer of the family . 
i decided this past year that i was going to get out and start playing a lot more 
and i went after it 
and and i really did n't find much improvement . 
fact , ever time i 'd start trying to correct something , it seemed like the score would go back up , 
i probably need to take some more lessons and practice more often . 
i think i 'm probably the same way . 
lessons do help . 
i go to this ducks unlimited dinner , 
it 's a hunter 's type affair 
i go down to austin , 
i live in the dallas area , 
but i go down to austin and go with my good customer and friend of mine 
and we always buy this weekend at a country club in the hill country at horseshoe bay . 
i 'm familiar with it . 
and we just have a ball , 
and we play three days in a row , three different courses 
and , course by the end of the third day and the end of the third course , my score has gone from a hundred and twenty down to about a hundred and five . 
if you play regular , i think it makes a big difference . 
you bet , 
so that makes a lot of difference to me . 
i try to work out regularly 
and when i am doing that and feeling loose and , that i swing better , 
i get through the ball better . 
i found as i 've gotten a little older here , i worry less about my distance . 
you bet . 
my control is a little bit better there . 
that 's super . 
i have n't learned to hit the ball easy 
i 'm always wanting to hit it hard 
and , that 's something my stepfather never could teach me just to relax and hit the ball , 
and subsequently when i do tire out from playing like twelve , fourteen holes , a lot of my energy 's gone , 
when i do swing it 's an easier swing 
and i do , actually , hit the ball better . 
have you ever tried a one iron ? 
i have a two through wedge . 
i hit a two iron awful lot . 
off the tee . i do n't hit a driver off the tee . 
that 's why i need my driving lessons . 
i put mine back in my bag this year , too , 
and i used a three wood rather than a driver . 
that helps . 
i had a lot more control on it , 
i sacrificed distance , 
but i was n't in trouble every time i got down the fairway . 
that 's a good idea . 
i think this next year , i 'm going to attempt to play more 
and i 'm going to do the same thing . 
i laid off my woods about three years ago 
and i just use a two wood off the fairway 
and i 'm a fairly strong person 
so i get a pretty good little drive 
and and i guess control my irons , better , 
if you 'll take lessons , the first thing they put in your hand is an iron . 
and i still remember that watching myself and my son 
but i think the key is you need to play more often than i play . 
i read recently here , they say , if you 're scoring well , you should play more . 
if you 're scoring poorly , you should spend more time on the practice range . 
i think there is less frustration factor there , too , 
makes good sense . 
the one iron is something i 've been thinking because my driver 's gone so badly lately that i should pick one up and try to start . 
apparently they 're very difficult to play with , 
but with practice , i would imagine you could groove that swing , too . 
and i play with a fellow that can knock a one iron , 
it 's incredible . 
and his accuracy is what 's so startling with it . 
but it 's an iron that he 's really practiced with . 
he has used , 
and it would be fun to get that good with uh , distance iron . 
you bet . 
if i can get off the first tee when everyone 's standing around watching you , i 'd be , great after that . 
if i get off the tee box and i 've , anything from a hundred fifty to two hundred yard drive through a straight , i just want to get down and kiss the ground . 
and get away without embarrassing yourself , 
which one have you got right now ? 
couple of them , 
i , at the moment , use an a s t two eighty-six 
and i got a leading edge 
and i got a american one and had a i b m one , 
just a couple . 
what do you have ? 
i 've got an omega 
and i 've got a generic four eighty-six machine . 
it 's very , very generic . 
what did you do , 
put it together ? 
and , upgraded it and put things in there and dibbled and dabbled 
and now it 's a fast machine . 
that 's all i got to say for it . 
what do you use it for ? 
what do you use it for ? 
work , 
i 'm a contract programmer . 
anything . 
i 've done business programming , scientific applications like petroleum science stuff and test equipment 
and i did one that was , the demonstration of a touch screen for a company that sells touch screens . 
it was kind of fun . 
put a little bitty portable computer in there and a plasma display . and make it look like things like attack simulators and all sorts of little things you 'd want to put your finger on the screen for . 
that sounds interesting . 
matter of fact i guess you get a lot of graphics in there . 
that 's where the speed helps out . 
unfortunately the little portable p c that was plugged on the back was only a seven and a half megahertz , eighty , eighty-six . 
it 's slow . 
that will , slow you up . 
i do programming for c n c turret presses and cat cam system type things 
and really need a faster system . 
i got a new line that i sell metal fabricating equipment , and cat cam systems , and tooling , et cetera . 
i know a guy that upgrades for a reasonable cost . 
who is that ? 
his name is t q or something like that . 
and my notebook is somewhere around here . 
see if i can make my telephone cord stretch far enough . 
i 've tried to do is get this outfit to give me one . 
that 's how i got my other ones by selling their product for them . 
they not only give me a demonstrator , but the hardware as well as the software . 
that works . 
that 's why i have so many different levels of p c -s around at the moment . 
here it is . 
a t s computers . 
a t s ? 
and where are they at ? 
do you know where custer is ? 
he 's south of renner on custer . 
and there is a little bitty mall , or , strip kind of center . 
in richardson there . 
in richardson ? 
i know where you mean . 
that 's about lookout there is n't it . 
it 's just south of there . 
it 's a little place , looks like a castle . 
kind of little guy in there . 
he , gives reasonable prices . 
i traded my three eighty-six for the four eighty-six for about six hundred . 
that 's a good deal . 
it was pretty reasonable . 
and he does a good job 
and he , guarantees everything he sells . 
there is a lot , 
you ever go by lucky computer there ? 
i used to , 
when i was putting shop floor computers together for guys , i 'd go and get their units and put them together and go and interface the stuff with our systems . 
have n't been doing much of that for the last year or so . 
so i do n't know where those guys are at these days . 
they 're up there in that mall . just below campbell . or that strip , center . 
they 're still doing business . big business , apparently . 
i tell you , those prices have just , unbelievably come down . 
i was amazed i was able to get this four eighty-six for six hundred even with a trade in , 
it 's like , wow . 
that works , 
i 'll go do that . 
and that thing screams now . 
i was kind of surprised how rapidly they bypassed , the three eighty-six . 
that was n't alive for but maybe two years . 
i thought . 
is that right ? 
that 's it ? 
when it comes on the manufacturing floor it 's about ten bucks . 
i 'll be darned . 
what do you think about the self insurance business ? 
i watched something on t v a couple of months ago by ex surgeon general koop . 
and he talked about canada 's system 
and it appears to work fine for the normal colds and things like that , 
but the expensive stuff , heart operations and things , they have a managed scarcity . 
and they said that in canada , there were as many heart trauma centers as there is in san francisco . 
so in one city in america , there 's as many hospitals that are equipped to do heart operations as in the entire area of canada , 
and that 's kind of spooky . 
i understand what you 're saying , 
and there 's probably some truth to that . 
i think that generally i do n't welcome added government responsibilities . 
however , when anybody ca n't police their own profession , it eventually leads to that , 
in the last six years , every year there 's been at least minimum twenty-five percent increase in health insurance costs , 
i think they 're asking for it . 
i think the medical profession is just pushing until there 's no option but the government take it over 
do you think that it 's just medical guys ? 
what about how expensive new equipment and technology is . 
that 's where i think most of the cost is coming . 
i think a lot of it is , 
i do n't disagree totally with that , 
but my wife this last summer when we were on vacation tore up her knee , 
and it was ligaments , in her knee , as it turned out , 
we were out at cape hatteras when this happened 
and she got home , 
he knows knee problems , 
if anyone does , this guy knows it . 
she goes in , 
he says , i think this is what it is , 
but you better go to the hospital and have one of these m r i things . 
a thousand dollars for this magnetic resonance imaging type thing . 
and my wife said , do i need that ? 
and he says , it 'll help me diagnose this . 
i suggest you go have this thing . 
insurance wo n't pick this up unless you 're in the hospital . 
a , thousand dollars for thirty-five minutes . 
doctors routinely send people in for anything . 
for years they did n't have this 
and they solved these problems , 
i said to her , look , 
if you feel you got to go , go , 
i do n't know what it is , 
but there 's , no doubt they get kickbacks to fill these machines up night and day . 
and even if they cost a hundred , two hundred , five hundred thousand dollars , at roughly a thousand dollars every half hour that 's ridiculous . 
i do n't care what anyone says . 
it 's a picture . 
it should n't cost more than thirty-five bucks for something like that . 
but they are n't reasonable . 
fifty , a hundred dollars . 
they do n't have to pay them back in three months time . 
i 'll have to agree , with you there , 
but there 's another problem , 
and that 's how litigious our society is . 
if the doctor makes a mistake , he can be sure that he 's going to be hauled into court . 
i think that 's another problem , 
but that 's part of our legalese problem . 
and that , the government eventually will address too just because it 's out of control . 
i agree with you . 
i was on a jury 
i did n't make the jury , 
but there was a , deal where a doctor was going to be sued for malpractice on the death on an infant . 
it was three days after it was born , 
and he was the one that delivered it . 
and they got four attorneys , 
one guy out of houston , he introduced himself as snake so-and-so , 
and he says , anyone have trouble awarding five million dollars , 
and i says , yeah , 
five million bucks is n't going to bring this kid back , 
as sorrowful as it is . 
if the doctor is wrong he should be pulled from his license , 
but five million dollars 
and away he goes because insurance pays for it , 
it does n't make logical sense to me , 
it does n't . 
do you exercise regularly ? 
i am a school teacher . 
and , us , 
there is uh , girl that went through our school district who does aerobics at the y w c a 
turn that off , 
i am recording . 
my husband just turned on something noisy . 
she comes to the school 
and there are a group of teachers , 
and we exercise regularly for an hour 
and we do it twice a week . 
. that is good . 
and we do aerobics , for our cardiovascular fitness for thirty minutes 
and then we do stretching and toning and cool down for another thirty minutes . 
so it is an hour . 
and then my husband and i take ten mile walks as often as possible . 
and not on the nights that i do aerobics , but if he wants to , he jogs , 
but we take the fast walks 
and we walk a couple of miles and then come back to the house . 
and so , we , take it seriously . 
we enjoy doing it . 
i enjoy my group at school . 
it is a lot more fun to exercise with somebody than is is to do it by yourself . 
i use to exercise regularly 
and i have n't lately . 
i have goofed off , i guess . 
i use to also take an aerobics class about three days a week before work . 
i understand that . 
i have never been able to do it before . 
the problem is that i am so tired at the end of the day , 
i just want to go home and not do anything . 
i and too . 
i just make myself . 
i get up at five thirty 
and i am at school at seven thirty . 
school is not over until four 
but it is in the building 
that is the big difference 
you had better hurry . 
go get dressed . 
there is motivation around there 
and then we can change right there in the building . 
i do n't have to drive and fight traffic and get anywhere . 
and i just go 
and we exercise . 
and until then i have belonged to exercise clubs 
and i have gone to these gyms in plano and richardson where they offer aerobics 
and i have done that before , 
but it has always had to be late at night after i have got home and after dinner 
and you are just kind of going ugh . 
and i have tried it immediately after school 
try to get some place and exercise from five to six , 
but then by the time you get home and you get dinner you are eating so late . 
that is right . 
that is right . 
it is . 
it is really hard with our life style when you work to , 
i know , some people go during lunch , 
but by the time i get over the gym and go for my class and shower and get back to work , it is probably two hours or more 
and that is just too long . 
i have twenty-five minutes for lunch . 
that is out for me . 
that does n't really do it , does it ? 
i do n't think so . 
if things are kind of hectic at school and people are running late , they kind of wait on us . 
cause they know we are in the building and coming . where as , at another place , you are paying a lot more money 
and it does going to start whether you are there or not . 
that is right . 
that is right . 
so this has worked out real nicely . 
in fact , she charges us two dollars a session . 
that is not much . 
we pay her for six weeks at a time cause that is a unit in school report card period 
and so it is twenty-four dollars every six weeks . 
that is not bad . 
it beats memberships at some of these clubs . 
that is for sure . 
you are not kidding . 
they are real expensive . 
i know . 
we belonged for a period of time to the signature club for about a year . 
we were paying a hundred dollars plus month for our family membership 
and at first we used it 
and then it got where we were n't beginning to get out money 's worth . 
and they offered lots of things , 
but we were n't taking advantage of them because we did n't have the time to . 
so we decided to forget that . 
that was just a waste of our money . 
we have one through work 
and it 's probably about a hundred and fifty dollars a year . which is bad . 
but i do n't know 
i still just do n't end up going cause it is n't at a convenient time or something , 
but i need to do something . if it 's only walk the dog or something . 
i need to start doing that . 
it does make you feel better . 
the hard thing is getting going . 
that is right . 
and if you have somebody who will do it with you , 
for a long time my husband did n't want to walk cause he wants to jog 
you think you 're getting your money 's worth ? 
never . 
the only thing i 'm thankful of is that we do n't have to pay any income tax in texas . 
that 's probably the next year 's agenda . 
i tell you what , 
i sure hope they do n't pass something like that . 
they 're finding a way to tax you every time you turn around , 
and i think one way or the other , we 're going to pay for the bureaucracy , i guess . 
it 's one area that is really hurting the economy more than anything . 
i think every time you turn around they have taking more bite out of the dollars that are available for spending for any kind of products , 
and i think that is probably as big a item fueling the recession as anything right now . 
i tell you , 
i remember every time , it seems like , we turned around , they 're adding another nickel or a few more cents onto the price of gasoline . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
and actually , that one , the taxes on gasoline do n't bug me as much as eight and a quarter percent sales tax ? 
that 's right . 
even they tax food . 
that 's the one that really kind of bothers me . 
i think that the problem with the sales tax , of course , is it 's an unfair tax across the board as far as ability to pay , which allegedly taxes are supposed to be directed towards . 
but now people with the lowest income pay a hundred percent almost of taxes on everything they buy , 
and where people make two hundred , three hundred thousand dollars a year , certainly a portion of that , they are n't going to be paying taxes on . 
and that 's the unfair inequities of sales tax as a main source of revenue , 
but i do n't think it is anymore , 
not in texas anyway . 
i got you , 
because people that , do n't make very much money wind up spending it all . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
whatever they spent it on , they have to pay tax on . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
and that 's the unfairness of the thing , 
but i think taxes generally are unfair 
what do you think of that new luxury car tax , anything over thirty thousand dollars ? 
like other things , if they do n't affect you , you do n't worry about them too much . 
i have trouble buying a twenty thousand dollar car still , 
and i guess if people got thirty , forty thousand bucks to spend on a car that 's their prerogative . 
i do n't have a whole of sympathy on that . 
maybe you buy that , 
i have n't , 
but to me it seems really interesting that they come along and add another ten percent tax on top of it . 
and there 's an awful lot of cars that cost more than thirty thousand . 
there are , 
there are . 
and the idea of that kind of taxation is to have people think twice on putting their money into that unless they really want it , 
buy something , 
it 's just like having taxes on , or exemptions for kids . 
it 's a way of increasing the population , 
that was one of the initial ideas of giving exemptions on kids , on federal taxes . 
one of the best things i heard on taxes to stimulate the economy , someone , brilliant deductor , probably lloyd bentsen , said that if they gave back the deductions on credit cards on your federal taxes people would probably be spending more money using their credit cards . 
i do n't know if that 's true or not , 
but if you look on all interest things , not just credit cards , but on your cars and any kind of interest that you 're paying , from a personal point of view , that might make certain sense in stimulating consumer purchasers . 
like booze example , they keep raising the taxes on booze , 
it gets to the point it makes drunks sober . 
they quit buying it . 
what about the taxes on cigarettes ? 
what are you guys having for christmas ? 
what are we having ? 
let 's see . 
i 'm not planning the menu . 
you 're not . 
we usually go out to either one of our folks , 
but i do n't know , 
it seems like a big thing for christmas is usually ham . 
funny you should mention that . 
i 'm a pig farmer . 
you are 
it 's kind of a hobby more than anything else , 
but we 're going to have wild boar 
we killed a boar the other day , 
it was mating with the sows , 
and you ca n't use the piglets , 
it 's about six months of no use , 
so we shot him and cleaned him out and had him processed into ham , 
and we 're also going to have a little roast suckling pig , because i 've got one that 's got a hernia 
and rather than pay the vet four hundred dollars for surgery , we 'll just cook him and eat him . 
is that hard ? 
i tell you what , 
preparing a little pig is a snap , 
i 'm telling you , 
real easy , easier than chicken . 
you kill him , 
most guys just shoot them in the head , 
in a second they 're gone 
and then you just dip the carcass in boiling water , pull it out and gut it , and just stick it down in a pit with some cloves and some pineapple , about three pineapples , and cover him up with wet sacks and then start a charcoal fire on top of him . 
and after about six hours , you put the fire out and dig that baby out of there , 
and it 's the best eating you ever had . 
does a boar taste just like regular ham ? 
just like a pig 
does it . 
it has a lot less fat . 
this wild boar weighed probably about three hundred and thirty pounds 
and he dressed out to almost two hundred and ten pounds . 
we took the skin and the head and the feet off , 
and that was about a hundred pounds of just ham . 
how many people are you planning on serving at christmas ? 
we 're not going to eat the whole thing . 
eat it all , 
it would take a year . 
but we 're going to drive up to kansas city , see my wife 's folks , 
what 's your mother cooking for christmas , 
her mom 's doing brisket . 
what is brisket ? 
brisket ? 
it 's a part of the cow that they used to throw away . 
it 's just tough as a boot 
and they used to use it for leather , i think . 
i was kidding . 
but it 's a part of the loin the rib cage , 
and it has a lot of muscle in it and a lot of , gristle where it attaches to the ribs , 
so it 's really a tough piece of meat 
but it 's so tasty , you ca n't stand it . 
so you just take it 
and you marinate it for a couple of days 
and that softens it up . 
and then you just put it in the oven , 
takes about four hours to cook one . 
they weigh about anywhere from ten to twenty pounds . 
and we 're going to have that . 
what else do you serve with your pig ? 
we 'll have cranberries and hominy 
and we 're big on olives and cucumbers and stuff up here . 
we have black olives and cucumbers and tomatoes , 
we still have tomatoes 
do you ? 
fresh tomatoes . 
we just got lots of snow . 
it started to freeze up around here , 
there 's nothing between you and us but our barb wire , 
and half of that 's down . 
it 's thirty degrees this morning . 
but it 'll go up to fifty or sixty almost . 
i did n't know it got that low at night . 
it 's desert , 
where we are , it 's , the edge of the desert , 
it 's part of the great plains . 
so in the day time in the summer it goes up to a hundred , hundred and ten 
and at night it goes down to about sixty . 
we get a fifty degree temperature swing in about four hours . 
so everything that lives around here is real tough . 
that 's trees , 
we got hundred year old trees that are twenty feet tall . 
that 's all the bigger they get , 
they 're just hard as a rock . 
go ahead . 
what kind of car would i want to buy . 
i do n't know . 
the question is would i want to buy , 
or would i probably actually buy . 
may be two different things . 
if you had all the money in the world or something . 
if i had all the money i wanted , then that 's whole different matter . 
in that case , i do n't know . 
my dream car for years was a porsche turbo . 
but i do n't know if i 'd want one of those now . 
of course i would want one if somebody was given to me . 
but i maybe would buy a b m w . or even a volvo . 
what do you have now ? 
i 've got a dodge daytona . 
it 's actually the first car we ever bought new . 
my car is the first one we ever bought new , too . 
but we just bought another used car , a couple weeks ago , actually . 
me too . 
what car do you drive ? 
what is it ? 
mine is a honda accord . 
we almost bought one of those . 
do you like it ? 
i do , 
and it 's funny because , after i bought it , i was doing a lot of business traveling , 
some of the cars that i got were the toyota camry and the nissan maxima and some of the competitors 
and i do n't like them as well except , it was n't really a fair comparison because those were automatics , 
and mine is a standard 
and the reason i got a standard was because i thought it handled a lot better 
it had a lot more pickup and everything . 
you get a little more control over when it 's doing the things it 's doing . 
what rental agent did you go to to rent those kind of cars . 
usually avis . 
to what , 
avis ? 
avis . 
i 'm not sure those are avis or not , 
but we have corporate contracts with the various companies 
i see . 
so it depends on your destination , too . 
kind of strange . 
you work for a big company , then . 
work for t i . which is how i heard about this . 
t i , 
i see . 
but 
i do n't know , 
if i were to buy a car with the constraints of real money i probably would go with something like a honda accord . 
one thing i really liked about the dodge daytona is the fact that they have this seven year warranty . 
and it really saved us some big money once . 
it did , 
they had a whole bunch of things that sort of broke at the same time 
and the bill would have been over fifteen hundred dollars , 
that was great . 
it was . 
that 's unusual to hear , 
usually something breaks , 
you look at the warranty 
and it 's excluded . 
we bought the extension 
and at the time we bought it it was four hundred and twenty-five dollars or something extra . 
i see , 
you got your money 's worth . 
we did , 
but we really debated at the beginning , 
and of course i 'm glad i did it . 
that is good . 
but we still have three years left on it . 
i 've been lucky . 
mine has n't had any trouble except last week a shopping cart crashed into it 
but i was real lucky because it just hit the lens to the light . 
bumper ? 
it did n't actually dent the car or anything . 
so it cost me twenty-five bucks to replace that , 
that was good . 
and the store will pay for it anyway , 
so . no big deal . 
if you were going to buy a new car would you buy another accord ? 
i probably would n't , just because i already have one 
but if i had to make the choice again , i 'm perfectly happy with what i decided although we did just buy another car , 
and that 's a legend 
those are nice . 
but it 's a used one 
and my husband has really wanted one for a long time , 
and the fact that this car that i have has performed so well , 
and before that i also had an accord , 
it was a real old one 
and i bought that used . 
i had absolutely no money to my name and bought that , 
and it served me real well , too . 
so he 's been impressed with all the honda cars . 
my sister drives one . 
is it legend 
i 'm not certain , 
but she 's liked it . 
we only had one car for a long time , 
and yet most of our usage of the car was just this little shuttle back and forth , four miles to work and back kind of thing . 
and so i bought a used yugo just to be a little car that i could care less about 
how did it go for you ? 
it 's worked . 
has n't left you stranded . 
that 's exactly what it is , 
it 's a cheap little car just to go run around town in 
i know . 
and . it 's actually kind of fun to drive . 
getting back in the daytona now , i almost do n't like it 
it 's too mushy , 
and it 's an automatic , 
that 's what my husband thinks about my car now , that he 's had the legend 
the steering 
it 's windy . 
you feel like you 're in a boat or something , 
i ca n't drive that , 
the legend , it 's just so huge . 
i do n't like it , 
how big is provo ? 
that a little town or a bigger city ? 
it 's not one of the bigger ones . 
i compare it to the size of plano , 
maybe a little smaller . 
plano , texas . 
i talked to someone that was only a couple of thousand in her town , i think . 
i forgot the name of the town . 
i thought maybe it was you . 
we 're supposed to talk about education . 
i certainly have some ideas since i 'm studying it now in college . 
i 'd say , first of all , they need to go back to spending more time on the basic reading , writing , arithmetic in grade school , 
because they really teach you about forty percent less than they used to , 
and it shows up . 
that 's one idea . 
do you have any ? 
i do n't know , 
i grew up in plano 
and my dad is actually on the school board there , 
so , i kind of kept up with a lot of things that went on . 
plano improved greatly in the last twenty , twenty-five years 
that 's for sure . 
it used to be the pits . 
and arlington is excellent now , 
but i 'm just speaking overall across the country . 
something is definitely wrong . 
and one thing , they do n't spend as much time just teaching reading and writing , 
so a lot of kids are just being promoted from year to year 
and they truly ca n't read 
so i do n't know how they expect them to pass history when they ca n't read anything even read a word problem in math . 
so that 's definitely a problem . 
another problem is you 're going to keep the smarter people in the system too long paying the wages they do . 
so what do you think is good about the schools ? 
it depends on where you are . 
they 're all so different . 
that 's another thing about the united states . 
there 's no national curriculum , 
what they 'd be teaching in an arlington school they may not be teaching in a plano school 
and in the same school district , even in an arlington seventh grade for instance , you may have an english class 
you may have half literature for the whole year , 
whereas in another one they 're going to concentrate on grammar and give you a little literature , 
grammar . 
it 's up to the teacher , in other words . 
so that 's kind of odd to me . 
it depends on what school you 're in and who your teacher is , actually 
overall , arlington is good , one of the better ones in the state , 
so i guess we lucked out when we moved here . 
of course we have a slight problem in that the number of the illiterate in america is mushrooming at this point , 
and where our kids might be in a great school , we 're still paying an awful lot of taxes for people who are on welfare and unemployment because they ca n't read . 
but do you think that there should be nationwide curriculum ? 
i do n't know . 
i just read about that the other day , 
and i had never even thought of it . 
actually it makes sense to a certain extent , 
because sometimes a third grade teacher will get kids from second grade that did n't even learn what they should to do the work that she is supposed to teach according to her plan , 
so i guess if there was a national curriculum we 'd at least have a certain amount that all kids would learn . 
but . we actually rank forty-ninth in the world as far as just plain literacy goes . 
that 's pretty low that there 's forty-eight countries ahead of us that have more citizens percentage wise that can read and write , 
so unless we want to keep paying for these people that ca n't make it in society , we 're going to have to do something . 
who do you think it should be done through ? . 
i do n't know . 
obviously nobody 's smart enough to have figured it out yet , 
so i probably ca n't . 
but i do think that we have to cut out some of this folderol stuff and go back in the first five , six grades and just keep going over and over and over until most of those that are capable can at least learn to read and write 
because they ca n't even get the menial job without being able to read something nowadays . 
you ca n't even work an answering machine if you 're at work and had to get a message or something or fill out an application to work at mcdonalds if you ca n't read . 
so i think that 's a start at least , going back to the basics in the early grades 
and they say that the average english student nowadays does at least fifty percent less reading and writing than they did twenty years ago , 
and that 's a big jump . 
i believe that . 
did you go to school in plano ? 
i did . 
through high school . 
you think about aids research ? 
aids is a nasty , terrible disease , 
and you die from it . 
so i think that they need to look into it 
and it 's kind of like cancer . 
how many years have we tried to find a cure for cancer . 
i think it 'll probably be as difficult . 
how about yourself . 
i 'm certainly in favor of aids research , 
and i think probably the government could spend a bit more money on it than it does . 
although it is not killing that many people now , it still has the opportunity to get out of control and become a huge problem . 
they say a million people are infected with the h i v virus , 
and 
that 's in the world , or in america ? 
in the country , america . 
whose figure is that ? 
i do n't know . 
i 've just heard it on the radio . 
sometimes you hear things on the radio that , could be true or could n't be . 
i guess they 're spending a billion or so a year on this aids research . 
do you think they should spend more ? 
i think they should , actually , although , 
and i do n't necessarily think that they should fund aids research and , in the process , neglect cancer research or whatever . 
i think that it would be a good thing for the government to increase funding for medical research in general . 
what do you think , doug , of mister johnson ? 
i am sorry that he has the virus . 
magic ? 
i do n't know , 
i think it 's very strange that the media has n't questioned him more strongly about gay sex or intravenous drugs or anything like that , as they probably would for a lot of other people . 
do you think he 's the hero that he 's being called by a bunch of the media ? 
not really , though i think he 's probably doing the right thing for a man in his position , 
but i do n't think it 's anything exceptional that he 's doing . 
it 's what many people have done already , who were just less famous . 
i took advantage of the opportunity when he came out . 
i talked to my kids about it 
it 's something that i had n't done before . 
that 's good . 
i 'm glad that mister johnson 's changed his tune on safe sex to abstinence , 
or i was glad he did that , for young kids , because a lot of kids would have ended up dying because of what he was promoting . 
let 's see . 
what are some of the other questions . 
let 's see . 
i do n't have any friends that have the disease . 
i guess you might not . 
i do . 
my cousin , does , for instance . 
is it pretty nasty ? 
it is . 
he had aids related complex for a while , 
and he is now in full-blown aids , really not doing very well , and has a brain tumor or that sort of thing . 
it sounds awful . 
it 's a very nasty thing . 
is it just that the immune system ceases to function properly 
that 's basically it , that the immune system can at first slow down , 
and the white blood cell count goes down , 
that 's aids related complex , 
but then when things get completely out of control and it basically hits bottom , that 's aids 
and in that case people are prone to getting any kind of weird cancer that only animals got before 
that sort of thing , 
short term , i do n't think anything 's going to be done about it or probably should be done about it . 
are you saying you do n't think anything should be done in the short term ? 
the short term , the recession is getting top attention . 
i think that you 're absolutely right there . 
and that effectively adds to whether it 's officially on the books or not . 
and that 's got to be paid . 
so this creates a pretty serious problem that 's going to continue to be with us for a while to come . 
i 'm not really sure that i even understand why the administration is proposing , for instance , tax reductions , because it seems to me that if they 're talking about reducing the tax that needs to be paid , or the tax that 's currently being paid , then it seems to me it ca n't possibly help with the deficit picture . 
it can only hurt the deficit picture . 
and the severity of the deficit picture already limits the options available or limits the degree of tax cutting you can do without bringing on serious problems for the longer term . 
so that 's the current predicament . 
it seems like it 's a kind of a catch twenty-two . 
my understanding is what supposedly they 're trying to do by reducing taxes is to kind of jump start the economy , the idea being that if people have to pay less money in taxes , they 'll have more money to spend , 
and if they have more money to spend , then that will be a spur to productivity , particularly commercial productivity which in turn will generate revenue . 
but it seems like , it 's sort of an unending spiral , 
i 'm not sure that there 's any real genuine truth to the idea that decreasing taxes , particularly the kinds that are being recommended bye-bye the bush administration and things like capital gains taxes and so forth is going to result in substantial amounts of money for consumers to spend . 
i 'm not sure how i feel about paying on the long term quests that tax cuts are worth at this point . 
it 's probably a judgment of how bad the recession is . 
it would seem to me that there are other things that the administration could do . 
first of all you look to the fed to fight the recession as indeed it has , with interest rates . 
i think that 's been a positive development . 
at the moment we 're doing very well on inflation . 
that 's the sort of upside to the deficit . 
it 's a sort of a piece of luck . 
that 's the upside to the recession . 
i do n't know , 
what kind of things do you think can be done in the long term ? 
can be done or will be done are two different things . 
at various places to look for cutting the budget , first of all i consider more defense cuts than are already planned depending on the world situation . 
but there are various other areas such as farm subsidies that ought to be slashed . 
the reagan administration took all such entitlements to the poor but left them for the middle class , 
in the longer term we 'd do well to make , reductions there . 
i think that i agree with you certainly in the second situation , 
and i think certain entitlements i 'm inclined to agree with you , too . 
education happens to be one place where i think that we would , 
a lot of education aid has gone to so-called trade schools which are sort of not colleges 
but schools that teach you trades beautician often exists only because of the federal programs that they can take people and tell them they can get loans for their full tuition and the school gets paid off immediately 
i see what you 're saying . 
and then the people default on the loans . 
and then they do n't provide very much education . 
i would have to agree with you if there are circumstances like that , around , 
and i ca n't confess to having any substantial knowledge of that sort of thing , 
our most recent series of projects inside was , we remodeled a bathroom recently . 
how did it go ? 
it went pretty well other than the fact that we encountered some problems that you run across in older homes with plumbing , which one thing led to another , 
and eventually we ended up replacing all the pipes from the sink clear back to the main drain . which meant you needed to take the wall out and start all over . 
like starting over , i guess . 
it started out as a sunday project 
and by the next sunday it was done . 
it was n't a one dayer . 
believe me . 
course i do n't know , 
once you get it done , then you probably wo n't have that problem again . 
it 's good for another thirty years . 
you 've got an older house ? 
that 's the thing that surprised me , because once i got into the plumbing everything in there was copper , 
and it was all soldered . 
is that right . 
that 's what drove me bananas , because i 'm going to the hardware store saying give me plastic pipe and cement to fit them together 
and nothing wanted to go , 
so it was like i had to go all the way back to the main drain and start all over . 
and just start at square one . 
that was an all day job , just to get it plumbed . 
and then if you do it wrong . 
fortunately , i was very fortunate , in the fact that when i made the installation of the sink and everything bolted up and we turned the water on nothing leaked , 
everything went all right . 
everything worked . 
and i just said , that 's marvelous . 
i appreciate it . 
that 's the type of thing you cross your fingers and are glad when that happens . 
i expected something to leak 
left a fitting loose , or did n't use teflon tape on one of them or something like that . 
but it all came together , 
so i felt pretty fortunate about that . 
all worked out all right . 
how about you ? 
probably the last thing i did was paint and wallpaper room 
i used the wrong kind of paint . 
this must have not been a very good quality , because it just has n't stood up very well . 
what kind of paint ? 
it was a latex paint , 
it was flat 
and i wonder if maybe i should have used a gloss . 
but they say you ought to use your gloss mainly in your kitchens , and things like that . 
that , and semigloss for trim work , and usually flat for walls . 
was it not washable paint ? 
it is a latex paint , 
so it 's supposed to wash , 
you 're supposed to be able to wash it 
but it just looks dingy . 
i do n't know how else to explain it . 
what color is it ? 
it 's pink . 
pink , 
it 's kind of got just kind of a worn look to it . 
just did n't turn out quite as nice as i would have liked 
did you require more than one can of paint ? 
we put two coats on it , 
and it 's a small room , 
but i think it only took one can . 
you did n't have to mix paint then . 
you do mix the color as far as you start with white and then they add the color . 
you know what i 'm saying 
but you only had one can of paint that you did the entire room with . 
and then i wall papered a couple of walls , 
how 'd that go ? 
that was the first time i 've ever wallpapered , 
kind of fun , is n't it . 
that 's an education in itself . 
first of all it takes quite a few rolls , even a small room , if you 're trying to match a design . 
repeating patterns is what you have to check for when you buy your paper . 
that 's what i needed , 
and i did n't think about that . 
i got a mickey mouse print is what i got . 
and so a lot is wasted . 
normally it will tell you on the roll how often a pattern repeats . 
i did n't even think to look for that . 
one of them was just a different color pink , is what it ended up being . 
when you did your papering did you start in the middle of the wall ? 
i did n't . 
or did you start at the edge ? 
is that how you 're supposed to do ? 
i started at one edge and went over , 
then you had to cut around the closet and cut around a window 
i 've had my best luck in papering when i start in the middle of a wall , 
and i 'll start with a plumb line . and start in the middle of the wall , and go from there , and go all the way around the room . 
and start right there . 
do you seem to get it straighter , 
is that the advantage , 
how do you get your main source of current events ? 
until recently i was taking the wall street journal , 
and i thought that was a good way , 
but i have about five different magazines that i get that keeps me up on things . 
it 's a week or two late , 
but that 's how i 'm staying up . 
i either watch the news 
or occasionally i 'll read the paper . 
do you like how it 's presented on the news ? 
i think the media 's a little bit too manipulative . 
they try to lead you too much , i believe , 
and sometimes they 're not very open , 
i do n't know , 
i think they 're a little bit biased sometimes . 
like for example , the kennedy rape case . 
when it first happened it was , he was guilty , he was guilty , he was guilty . 
they try to have you form opinions or whatever , 
and then i did n't like the things that were going on when we had desert storm and stuff like that . 
basically i think they do n't present the whole sides of everything . 
so , it makes you feel like they 're wanting you to take their opinion . 
, instead of reporting the news , it 's more like an editorial on a lot of issues . 
i 've noticed that too , 
and it 's kind of distressing , is n't it ? 
and i 've noticed that they do it just with subtle little words usually just that sway the whole report by just a couple of words . 
when i was in school i was a communications major , 
so i 'm well aware of the little subtle words and persuasive speaking , and so forth . 
so , communications . 
were you looking into becoming a reporter 
i was , 
and i ventured off in a whole entire different field . 
i went with the state . 
and i went with the department of state treasurer in retirement disability , 
calculate benefits . 
i bet that 's a interesting job . 
and , working for state government you hear all about current events , about things going on within the state itself . 
so that 's another source where i keep up with current events 
there 's one that i 'm reading right now . 
it 's information week . 
it says a t and t . 
it 's going to cost them seven point five billion after tax charge in ninety-three , to account for that . 
it 's a lot of money . 
and it 'll drop their earnings by a hundred million a year forever more . 
it 's a lot of money . 
it is . 
and you have to stay up on stuff , 
and i bet in your job that you have to , 
do you read the wall street journal ? 
i primarily deal with the state employees , 
but i find interesting tidbits in what the news reports as far as the state of north carolina 's budget , and stuff like that . 
and i really know what the budget is , 
and i 'm well aware of the billions of assets that the state has , 
and it 's just funny . 
so i do n't have a whole lot of faith in , the news . 
but it 's not always one hundred percent reliable . 
can you think of anything that could be done to make our news media more accurate and objective ? 
i think they need to go into a little bit more depth before they would just report somebody wants to make a statement or something like that , 
because another example is the aids issue or whatever . 
someone said , i found a cure . 
the headlines on the news or whatever is , someone says they found a cure for aids . 
and then two months later it 's discovered it 's not , 
before they come out with something like that they need to research the matter a little bit more . 
i guess they do that so they do n't get scooped , so they have the big story . 
that , 
it , 
there we are . 
tell me about the car that you 've got . 
i have a honda hatchback , nineteen eighty-four . 
and i had a hatchback , a nineteen seventy-eight version before this one . 
and i 'll be honest with you . 
i have never found any automobile that has been more conscientiously constructed and , put together 
and it does its job . 
all i have to do on my honda is change the oil and the filter every thirty-five hundred miles , 
and i did have to put two new front tires on at fifty thousand miles , 
but that car just purrs like the day it was built . 
i get forty-two miles per gallon on the highway and twenty-eight to thirty driving around in town . 
it 's a five speed straight stick machine . 
and , i can carry more in that trunk area in my little honda than i can in the big cars , 
and i have a large pontiac , 
and i have a sixty-nine cougar , which i 'm saving because it 's old , 
but it 's in beautiful shape . 
but i can carry as much in my honda or more than i can in those other bigger cars . 
that 's very interesting . 
i 've had exactly the same experience with the one that i 've got . 
and surprisingly it 's also an eighty-four 
l x ? 
i 'm still here . 
i 'm sorry 
what ? 
it was an l x ? 
it 's an l x , 
it 's not a hatchback , 
yours is a four door . 
four door , 
and very , very comfortable car . 
big roomy trunk 
and very happy with it , 
if , my only consideration were buying another car just to tool around town in and make brief trips and things like that , i would very , very seriously consider buying one . 
i think they 're extraordinarily reliable cars . 
they are . 
why i 'm not sure i want to buy a honda , is because i have to make a kind of a steady trip down the road about once a month , because i 'm divorced 
and i have a daughter that lives down in north carolina 
and i drive , down interstate ninety-five , 
and it 's just an absolutely wild highway . 
ninety-five is wild in any car . 
there 's no doubt about that 
because i run over to crystal city , or used to , 
i 'm retiring the end of this month 
but i 'm very much aware of the crazy driving that goes on over there . 
and you 've got it , 
so having precious cargo in the car with me , as you can well imagine , it 's very hard for me to imagine that , a honda 's going to be as safe a car as the one that i 've got my eye on , which is a volvo . 
in fact , quite frankly i 've owned a volvo in the past , 
they 're expensive cars to keep up when they need service , 
but i 've found that i 've had a lot of luck with them . 
course i 'm a mechanically inclined kind of person , 
and i always wind up getting under the hood and finding out all the things that need to be taken care of , and so forth . 
and i guess that 's one thing that recommends the honda to a lot of people , is is there 's just very little that you have to do under the hood , 
it just sits there and purrs , 
and all you got to do is the main major thing of changing that oil and that filter . 
i get six hundred miles on a tank of gas . 
i know . 
it 's really amazing . 
beautiful , beautiful machine . 
incredible . 
anyway , i 've been looking at the prices of these cars and so forth , 
and i think that it 's very surprising some of these very expensive volvos can be gotten for a lot less money than you would think if you 're willing to buy ones that are about , the vintage of the cars that you and i currently own 
is that right , 
a brand new volvo costs thirty thousand dollars ? 
certainly some of the top end ones . 
you can still get , even the low end wagons for less than twenty thousand dollars 
in the washington area , of course , being as affluent as it is , there are lots and lots of volvo dealerships down here 
so there 're lots and lots of them available in the paper at any week , 
and i sort of scan the paper and look at them , and so forth 
and that 's the other thing is that i 've never really been too terribly much of a new car person . 
i think i 've bought one or two new cars in my life , 
and i 've tended to , buy cars that are two or three , and sometimes even four and five or six years old . 
this honda that i have i bought used , 
and , in fact , it had an extraordinarily low amount of mileage on it . 
i 've just rolled seventy thousand miles , 
and it 's an eighty-four . 
my eighty-four just has seventy-seven on it 
and i 've made many trips to washington and down to virginia beach , virginia , where my mother lives , and things like that , 
and i drive it , 
up there , maybe you guys do n't have as big a problem with air pollution as many , do you ? 
we have a terrible air pollution problem . 
do you really ? 
our summers are extremely hazardous 
and during certain wind directions because we get the gary , indiana chicago pollution 
and we can look out on the lake and just see the brown haze coming up along the lake . 
that 's horrible . 
and they do post warnings for people who have heart diseases or respiratory problems during that summer season . 
in the winter it 's not as severe . 
but if the wind comes basically from the south it can be really bad . 
the state of wisconsin , as a matter of fact started some litigation against illinois because of the air pollution we were getting . 
i do n't think it 's going to go very far , 
but it was a way of triggering awareness . 
so what 's the conditions like in dallas ? 
in dallas , i have n't seen air pollution quite on a level that we had in denver . 
i grew up in denver , 
and i 've lived there most of my life , 
and we used to have the posted warning days . 
however , in colorado now , they have the emissions control law , which has really cut down , 
probably only once every couple of years do we ever have pollution so bad that they have to post warnings now as far as health concerns . 
due to the emissions , control on the vehicles , seems that all of our , smog was caused by vehicles rather than industry . 
wisconsin has a law in which we need to take our cars in every year when we apply for a new license tag and they are tested for their pollution control equipment , 
and if they do n't qualify then they have to take it to a mechanic and have it gone over and then verify that it is drivable . 
so , they 've tried to do a lot of that 
and we were talking earlier about madison 
madison has one of the nicest bike road sharing programs of any city in wisconsin 
and all wisconsin has probably the most extensive number of bike trails for recreational use of any of the states . 
and there is a real promotion of biking 
but there are still a lot of people who insist on driving their own automobiles to go everywhere . 
i find that a little irritating , because i do n't think it 's always so necessary . 
maybe to you and i who have grown up in some more beautiful parts of the country i think that , we become a little more aware rather quickly of what 's happening with air pollution and how horrible it really is . 
i notice people in dallas seem to say , there 's air pollution , 
but how bad could this problem really be . 
send them to wisconsin , 
and we 'll let them try to drink out of some of the lakes and try to fish in some of the lakes that have been suffering from the acid rain 
and they may wake up , 
how 'd you like to own a piece of property where your lake is going sour because of acid rain . 
it 's really a serious issue for those of us up in this sector up here . 
or do you hypothesize that most of the smog or air pollution comes from vehicles 
or does it come mostly from industry up there ? 
and i do n't know exactly where it emerges from when it 's up in the northern sectors of wisconsin 
that causes the acid rain . 
that i 'm a little uncertain of , 
but i do know that it is a problem . 
i had talked with my parents . 
i was born in muncie , indiana , and grew up a little bit in terre haute , 
and i had asked them before , 
i went back to visit recently , about a year ago , 
and i asked them , 
let 's see , 
my husband does the majority of the , gardening taking care of the lawn and fertilizing , 
but , i tend to all the , planting the annuals and the spraying and taking care of them and maybe putting flowers in throughout that season , and later on maybe planting some mums and that kind of stuff and any kind of decorating for the holidays , 
i 'll fix the porch up with pumpkins for halloween and christmas , 
but basically he does all the heavy stuff , 
and i do all the fun stuff . 
we have it just opposite here . 
my wife works , 
and she 's sedentary all day long 
so when she gets home she likes to mow . 
i see . 
and we have about ten acres , 
and she tries to mow about half of it . 
. that 's a big job . 
it 's doing real well , 
because when we got this place the dirt was just overgrazed 
it was bare dirt in a lot of places 
and of course we water a little bit , 
that 's just too much to water all at once , 
but just by keeping it mowed and getting it mulched in , we 've reclaimed a lot of it . 
i bet it 's beautiful . 
but we do n't do much in the way of flowers . 
we have one little flower garden that we work with . 
the rest of it is just wild flowers 
wild flowers . 
and in the summertime we get the prettiest yellow flowers . 
they 're about a third the size of palm of your hand 
and course in the spring we get the bluebonnets and indian paintbrush . 
that sounds lovely . 
the wild flowers are beautiful . 
i was thinking about throwing some in the back , just way in the back , behind the swing sets 
or , just . 
then you do n't really have to have much maintenance involved . 
my wife and i really enjoy that sort of thing . 
she enjoys mowing . 
i ca n't believe it . 
i hate it . 
a lot of women do . , 
maybe one of these days i 'll have to get out there and mow , 
but my husband takes it on , 
and i 'll help rake up the grass , 
and sometimes i 'll help him edge , 
because , we do n't have that much property , 
but we 're on a corner lot , 
so there 's a lot of edging to do 
and that 's what 's nice about living more in the country , 
you do n't have to worry about any of that . 
we do n't even have any concrete or asphalt . 
that 's nice , 
in the past we 've had homes that have n't had any side walks , 
and it 's been a little more country with the trees , 
and we do miss that . 
if we had a chance to move , i think we 'd move back to somewhere that was a little more countrified and a little less maintenance required as far as that goes . 
but we do everything together . 
actually this fall , i was talking about , 
two weeks ago we got a thousand pine trees from the soil and conservation people 
and we 're in the process of planting 
and we 're building a stand just to the north of our house , and along the east property line 
and i think what we 're trying to do is create sort of a wind break because in the winter time when that wind comes out of the north , it just cuts right through you like you 're not even there . 
on the other side of the house , though , that 's where we have all the delicate flowers and the mums , 
and we have morning glory 
and we have trumpet vine and moon flowers , 
and we planted those out by the septic , so that they get plenty of water 
and we get hummingbirds come in the spring all summer long . 
that sounds so pretty . 
and when we leave the doors open , they fly in the house . 
they , do n't do any damage , though , 
they do n't like it in here because there 's nothing to eat 
i see . 
and when you 're as busy as one of those babies , you 've got to eat most of the time . 
i see . 
we put up some hummingbird feeders and some bird feeders . 
we got asparagus , 
and we 've got some plum trees and some apple trees and some tomato and some blackberries and strawberries . 
we get the best strawberries , that you just ca n't believe . 
that sounds wonderful . 
we just got our last tomatoes . 
i love home grown tomatos . 
there 's nothing like them . 
they just do n't have the same ones in the supermarket . 
these are accidental tomatos . 
what does that mean , accidental tomatoes ? 
last year the birds came and ate a few of the tomatoes , 
of course you 're going to lose some that way 
and the seeds go right through them . 
i see . 
to begin , 
i guess space is real important , 
so it 's real vital to the future of not only our kids but every generation until the end of time , i guess . 
i agree 
it 's definitely new frontier stuff . 
but i 'm not too up-to-date on the space frontier , 
but i guess they 're going pretty far into it now . 
star wars is not too far i do n't think . 
i worked on some of it at t i once upon a time . 
have you . 
what do you know about it . 
actually i 'm quite versed lately . 
i get on a computer network all the time , 
and people are talking about the current space program all the time . 
they 're talking about new rockets that they 're designing now that are just like science fiction , 
it 's like they , take off , 
the afterburners are going not like space shuttle landing gliding down , but straight down to the landing pad . 
it 's called v c x or something like that . 
also called delta clipper , which is a decent name for something like that . 
i do n't know . 
you think you 'd , go up in space if you had a chance ? 
do you , 
i think i would . 
i think that 'd be neat . 
i think i would just sitting here talking about it , 
but if the time came , it 'd be real nervous . 
i 'd be scared , 
scared me worse than six flags roller coaster . 
that 'd be pretty hairy . 
i had a tire come off of a car , 
imagine . 
depending on what was left of my technology to get me home . 
i guess they 're talking about people going to the moon and stuff , now , wherever . and opening up those stations , whatever , filling them . 
they 're talking about doing that again , too . 
i do n't know if we 'll ever see that up there . 
at least we 're going to have a space station supposedly in the next few years . 
that 's all beyond my imagination really . 
but , science fiction books , 
you look at the jetsons cartoon show , 
and it 's not too far fetched what they all had in those cartoons , 
so you never know . 
any of that stuff from the jetsons , from that cartoon , that you would never imagine would become possible , 
and we have a lot of those , 
so you never know what may occur , 
but as far as me seeing it i do n't know . 
i do n't know , 
but i think it 's real vital important for the future generations to come , 
it 's , got the extra little oomph of interest . 
i 'm sure it 'll draw a lot more interest too , once it 's more possible , 
boeing or mcdonald douglas or something like that was supposed to buy a space shuttle sooner or later and just make it purely commercial 
and they 'd go up and do things 
did they scratch that star wars deal they one we was all worried about russia and all that ? 
it 's still probably going , 
but i do n't know whether , research will go on . 
they 're going to be cutting back so much on just the number of troops we 've got in europe and the number of troops we have here . 
i know , 
but russia 's still going to have missiles , 
they 're still going to be subs and things . 
and we do n't know who 's handling them now 
so that 's a whole different story now . 
latest i heard it was just going to be russia itself that was going to have them . 
at least that 's what everybody says . 
we want only russia to have them . 
and now they 're saying , yeah , 
you 're a republic , 
you do n't want those , 
you do n't want those . . 
they splitting it all up now , 
and one of them crazy guys get a hold of it , 
you never know . 
but the guy that 's taken over for gorbachev , he 's supposed to be on our side , is n't he . 
pretty much . 
one hopes . 
i think we went through him though to get to gorbachev on a lot of subjects 
but that way , you ca n't never tell that . 
kiss some butt , 
tell me about your home . 
it 's me , my wife and two young boys . 
and right now we 're in either a zero lot line or a garden home . which you might call it . 
so we do n't have a big yard . 
but when my wife and i first moved in , it was just the two of us . 
so it was enough . 
and it 's what they call a story and a half . because it 's not a full two story . where everything on top is on bottom . 
so , it 's got real high ceilings on half the house 
and the other half is just standard sized ceilings . 
and it 's about a five year old house now . 
it sounds nice . 
it 's pretty nice . 
unfortunately , the builder who built it went out of business already . 
landmark is the one who built it . 
these guys that gambled high lost big . 
that 's true . 
and i 'm insulating myself from that problem . 
exactly what happened to them . 
i 'm building my own house . 
that 's nice . 
and as i look out the window of my trailer , i can envision all the insulation that 's going up today . 
are you doing it yourself ? 
i used to be a builder . 
that 's nice . 
and i retired about five years ago and started college . 
i see . 
and now i 'm a college educated builder . 
there 's still no work . 
so i decided this summer that we had enough credit on the credit cards to buy the materials 
so i did . 
that 's great . 
and the state has a law that says you can not borrow the money to build your own home . 
is that so ? 
i did n't know that . 
you can borrow the money to pay somebody else to build your house 
but you ca n't borrow the money to build your own . 
that sounds kind of dumb . 
it 's to protect the banks from guys that say i want to build my own house and go out a build a spec home 
and then it does n't sell 
and then the bank 's holding the bag . 
as you know , anything that involves the government works half as well as it 's supposed to costs three times as much . 
that 's right . 
hence the savings and loan problem we have . 
that 's true . 
but my home is fairly simple . 
it 's designed to be added on to . 
that 's good . 
i figure it 's just me and my wife 
but i like to do stuff with my hands and whatnot , 
so i want to have a shop . 
how big a lot do you got it on ? 
ten acres . 
that 's nice . 
that 's real nice . 
it 's really nice too because i ca n't see my nearest neighbor . 
he 's on the other side of a hill . 
and my second nearest neighbor is a dot on the horizon . 
seriously . 
that 's pretty good . 
in the winter time , i can see another guy 
i can just make out his place . 
i 've got a thirty mile view to the east and about ten miles to the north . 
that 's pretty good . 
i took a lot of time in choosing this site because the house has no heating or air conditioning . 
you do n't plan on putting any of that in ? 
it 's got a very small furnace . 
and we 'll use a wood burning stove as well . 
but , in the house itself , i 've been working inside lo- , these many months 
and i have not had to use the heat . 
because it 's all geothermal . 
that 's pretty good . 
on the south side is all glass . 
as much as i could get in it . 
and the east side is glass . 
i 've got one , two , three , four , five , six windows in the east side on forty-eight feet . 
so it 's almost all glass . 
my wife would love that . 
there 's no place in the house where you can stand and not see four windows . 
she loves lots of windows . 
that 's great . 
is it a single story ? 
not really . 
it 's on the side of a hill . 
i see . 
the , residential level at the side that 's in the hill is about four feet deep . 
i see . 
and the side that 's on the other side is about six feet high . 
so i 've got a pretty good grade there . 
and then when i put the verandas which will be twelve feet out all the way around on the north , south and east sides that will define the shop . 
that 's kind of like a victorian style ? 
i 've always liked that . 
we do n't have much yard 
but i built a small deck in the back . 
but i see these magazines where dig your own deck . 
i kind of wish i had them , those size property and , one with a grade on it so i can build a real nice deck . 
i 'm sorry 
that 's okay , 
i did n't hear . 
hobbies . 
let me see , 
i do n't know if that took or not , 
i 'll do it again . 
what are your hobbies ? 
i hear you have kids ? 
you heard her in the background . 
that 's babies . 
that 's your full time hobby ? 
takes a lot of time . 
i like most sports . 
i like to do that . 
i kind of like to do a little bit of sewing . 
little bit of embroidery work , once in a while . 
what do you like to do ? 
i try to do some painting , although i 'm not very good at it . 
i 'm sure you probably are . 
not really . 
you like it , 
i inherited the genes that make me think i 'm creative , but not the ones that give me the ability to be . 
that 's right . 
so , i always try . 
i do some sewing , mostly out of necessity . 
that 's hard sewing . 
it is n't 
and it is . 
it is , 
actually the sewing is n't the hard part , 
it 's just being able to lay out the material and measure it because you need so much room . 
it depends on how elaborate you get it . 
i 've been doing that 
that 's a lot of work . 
but usually . 
so that , at least i can do watching t v or whatever 
and i 've gone and put the needle through my thumb a few times , trying to get it through 
that feels really good . 
so that 's not really my favorite thing to do or anything , 
but i need to do it . 
to do it , 
let 's see , 
i have a dog , and a lot of fish . 
keeping fish is my biggest hobby . 
keeping fish . 
they 're probably easier than keeping dogs , though , are n't they . 
it depends on how frequently they die , and how much that bothers you . 
how much that bothers you , 
and you probably have to clean out the tank too . 
you do n't have to do as much as i thought . 
i had fish as a kid 
and they always died immediately , 
and , what i think now is the reason is i kept the tank too clean 
you 're kidding 
you need to let the bacteria build up , 
and then it keeps all the chemicals in balance . 
i see . 
and i would just take everything out and just wash it with scalding hot water 
and it would kill all the bacteria , 
and that would screw up all the chemical cycles again 
and so you 'd have to start all over to build that up probably . 
that 's right . 
so now i only clean things to make things look more aesthetically pleasing 
and i do n't try and sterilize things . 
do n't go through the whole nine yards 
and they kind of need a little bit of that . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
so you 've had fish for a long time . 
i 've had them , 
i guess it 's been two years now i 've had a tank here , 
and then back at home i used to have a small five gallon tank . 
but that never worked well . 
and , i have fifty-five gallons now . 
what size do you have now ? 
that 's a good size . 
it 's a lot easier . 
have you ever had it crack or break or leak . 
not yet . 
fifty-five gallons , you 'd hope it would never do that . 
that 's right , 
i really do . 
do you have all kinds of different fish 
i just have what they call community fish guppies , and platies and basic things . 
real exotic . 
the expensive ones . 
they 're probably harder to take care of 
they are . 
they 're very expensive 
and when they die it 's more like an investment . 
i bet it is . 
you lost an investment 
do you have problems with the fish eating each other ? 
not really . 
only if there 's baby fish . 
you always have to isolate those . 
how do you isolate them ? 
a jar or something 
they have breeders . 
it 's a little plastic things that sort of floats 
and you put the mother fish in there 
and then it 's got a trough underneath her 
so as the babies come out they fall down in the trough 
and there 's a hole in the middle so they fall into the bottom part of the chamber so the mother ca n't get to them either . 
it kind of works , 
but it 's also got slots in it so the water can circulate 
and on occasion if you get a real small one , it 'll fit out the slots . 
it 'll go through the slot . 
that 's right , 
but , it works , i guess . 
that works all right then . 
they do n't want the mothers to be with the little fish either . 
they 'll eat them . 
they will . 
is n't that odd . 
you would n't think that . 
and it 's funny because the one i have , every single month without fail she has babies . 
you 're kidding . 
all the time , 
her variety , it says they wo n't eat the babies , 
and i 've seen her do it . 
and that just makes you sick almost , does n't it ? 
it makes you understand that things are different . 
things are different in the animal kingdom . 
. we might decide what 's proper and what is n't , 
but that 's the way it is for them . 
that 's kind of the way they do it . 
that 's it . 
survival of the fittest or something . 
because if the baby is strong enough , it can swim away fast enough and go hide . 
go hide from them , 
and then , you think , how did they do it out in the real world anyway when these fish are in the tropicals or wherever they are kind of trying to keep up with that , 
but . if you 're like me , you never have enough time for the hobbies . 
not really . 
i try . 
i play a couple of instruments . 
arlington , texas 
since i got somebody from arlington , virginia one day . 
is that right ? . 
i never thought about that , 
but there is an arlington , 
i had a call the other day from birmingham , michigan , 
and i was thinking 
birmingham . 
the only birmingham i could think of was alabama . 
it 's funny how many names have been used all over the country . 
tell me what kind of books have you read ? 
to tell you the truth , i 've been going to college for the last four years 
so mainly , text books . 
i was going to say , not fun kind ? 
but , i really tend to like biographies a lot , not necessarily always heavy ones 
i just read one about grace kelley . 
i love to read about real people . 
to me , half the time it 's more fascinating than some of these made up stories . 
it is , 
because it 's really and truly a true thing . 
it happened . 
i read one about bob hope that i liked . 
that was real good . 
i 'm like you , 
if it 's not a heavy biography i enjoy it . 
i used to like to read about royalty a lot . 
when i was younger i read about every king and queen that lived in europe . 
that was my thing for a while . 
i read a novel that used the names of princess di and prince phillip coming over here to be entertained and all , 
and there was a murder . 
it was some time ago . 
seems like it was the spy went dancing , or something like that . 
it sounds like fun . 
it was a lot of fun because they used these real names . 
wonder if it was by one of those famous writers 
margaret truman daniels writes a lot . 
in fact i believe it was 
sounds like something she would write . 
i think it was by her , now that you mention it , because someone had given it to me , 
and i thought , this will be great , 
and it was . 
i 've heard that her books are really interesting , 
and they always sell well . 
brings it to life . 
i know some of the british people laugh at us because we 're so enthralled with their royalty . 
but that 's like them being enthralled with our football and so forth . 
i know , 
our movie stars . 
our movie stars , 
because it 's totally different concept to us . 
i have n't had a chance to read a lot lately either . 
i have read mostly novels . 
i went to visit my daughter in florida 
and i took a novel with me and read it at thanksgiving time , 
and it was one of those generation novels 
starts out when they 're small and continues through generations 
i always like those . 
and i like that . 
have you ever read anything by susan howatch ? 
i have . 
is n't she fabulous ? 
she is wonderful . 
i do n't like to get one of her books 
because , i just live to read . 
i 'll skip everything just to get back to the book . 
i stayed up one night until two in the morning finishing one of hers because i could not put it down . 
i do n't know , 
how often does she come out with them . 
i probably have missed the last few since i 've been back in school . 
it seems like she does n't write as often as danielle steele and those silly things . 
she writes the same thing . 
she can turn them out overnight , i swear . 
and they 're the same silly things , 
if you 've read one it 's practically the same thing over and over . 
i 've never read a whole one of hers , i do n't think . 
and think how rich she is . 
i 'm criticizing her , 
and would n't i like to have her money 
because they go from hardback to paperback 
and she has millions of them . 
and then make movies out of some of them . 
mini series and so forth , 
and it seems to me like susan howatch does not write as often . 
i have not seen as many of hers . 
hers are so involved , 
and they 're such a higher intellectual level , because she quotes a lot . 
i think she does a lot of research , too . 
i do too , 
she could n't possibly turn them out like some of these popular writers , 
but her books are just incredible . 
i do n't think they 've ever made a movie , do you ? 
i do n't think so , 
and i 've often wondered why , have n't you ? 
i really just thought about it now 
maybe it 's because they take so much in . 
i do n't know . 
maybe they 're just too involved for the average person to go and sit through them . 
they 're so big 
it would be like another gone with the wind , 
i guess another three hour movie . 
and maybe that turns people off , 
but look at gone with the wind . 
i know . 
it 's about one of my favorite movies . 
have you gotten into scarlett yet ? 
it had such a bad press , 
i was n't too . 
that 's exactly what i was going to say . 
i was amazed , 
in the beginning when it was on route coming out i heard mixed publicity kind of good and bad , 
and then when it came out , all i heard was just how bad it was , that i did n't even want to get it . 
me , either . 
do you know anyone that 's read it ? 
i have n't heard of anybody that 's read it , either . 
i think it was on the best-seller list , though for a while . 
it would n't surprise me , 
about the weather . 
very appropriate , i guess . 
you ready for this ? 
john , 
just a moment . 
guess what , 
we get to talk about the weather . 
the weather this time of year has actually been kind of unusual . 
like we 've gotten the last couple of days . 
i do n't know . 
i fly for a living , 
the weather 's been terribly unusual every where i 've been . 
you do 
so you probably go everywhere and have all sorts of weather . 
i imagine it 's kind of an experience also trying to land and take off in the weather . 
it was around here last night , 
i 'll tell you that . 
actually i 've heard on the news that we will be setting a record here in the state of texas for the large amounts of rain and moisture we 've had this year , that it 's going to break all kind of records that were set back since nineteen thirty-two . 
no kidding . 
so . 
if it keeps on raining like this , 
and i understand it 's supposed to rain until saturday night . 
saturday or sunday they were saying , 
i know the systems have been real strong out . 
i went through phoenix twice on , wednesday morning 
and mumblex approaches to low minimum mumblex both times 
and phoenix never gets that kind of weather 
and so are you an airline pilot ? 
i am 
for southwest , 
for southwest , 
fantastic . 
i have a brother that 's a pilot , also , with american . 
is that right ? 
i imagine with all this kind of weather it makes it kind of dangerous for you . 
i would n't call it danger . 
this really is n't bad stuff to fly around in . 
this is much better than dealing with the thunderstorms in the springtime . 
i guess so , 
the air systems are reasonably calm . 
the turbulence have a little bit of chop , 
but it 's not like it is in the spring time . 
we moved actually down here from another location , 
and it 's spectacular the thunderstorms and rain storms you get in the spring time , the torrents of rain . 
spectacular is the right word for them . 
pardon me ? 
spectacular is a good word for them . 
i 've never seen a thunder show like i 've seen down here before in texas . 
it 's amazing . 
actually i 've seen it where there 's not a cloud in the sky , 
it 's a cloudless night , 
and the rain is n't falling , 
but you can see the lightening going horizontally across the sky and back and forth , 
and what a light show . 
it 's fabulous . 
cloud to cloud it can be really sensational here . 
that 's true . 
where are you from originally ? 
i 'm from northern utah , 
and that 's a very arid climate , 
from salt lake city area 
and there 's always a lot of snow . 
in fact , where i grew up we were about an hour 's drive from seven to twelve different major ski resorts , 
and so there was an awful lot of snow , 
and because it was an arid climate , the snow was always a crisp , powder , light snow which made it fantastic for skiing and sleigh riding and everything else . 
so , we had a great time . 
were you near the park cities area . 
in snowbird and solitude and brighton and all those areas . 
beautiful area . 
i imagine , have you skied before ? 
we 've skied , 
i have not skied that area . 
i 've driven through it several times . 
we skied california a bunch when we lived out there , 
and , of course , we grew up in minnesota , 
and we do lot of cross country skiing there . 
do you think the weather is typical for this time of the year ? 
not really , 
minnesota 's gotten just hammered with snow , 
we 've gotten a fair amount of rain for this time of year already i think 
and i 've been surprised that we have n't seen more of the temperatures that we 've got today that moved in last night . 
it 's been cold . 
there was a time , though , in the middle part of november that got really cool , really , really unseasonably cool 
it did . 
and then it warmed right back up , 
and i thought , great 
my wife was just listening here 
and she said , yeah , 
it froze in fact . 
it was real cold . 
but that was very unseasonable for us down here . 
but , i 've really enjoyed the weather down here , too , 
because two years ago we were the day after christmas able to go out in shorts and play tennis in the nice sunny weather , 
and it 's not as severe as the weather that i 've experienced up in northern utah . 
that 's real true . 
same with us from minnesota . 
in fact , i 've played golf on , new year 's day one year . 
down here ? 
not in minnesota . 
i have a brother-in-law that lives in minnesota 
and they say six months out of the year it 's bitter cold , 
and the wind and the blowing snow and everything . 
it is , 
it is . 
usually in minnesota they get their snow in january and february , 
what are your favorite shows ? 
it does n't seem like i get enough time to watch much t v , 
i 've watched that sisters a couple of times . 
i think that 's kind of a good show . 
i 've never seen that . 
have n't you ? 
. i like that one , 
and i 'm trying to think . 
i do n't even know if i have any other real regular ones that i watch . 
how about you ? 
i like l a law not because it 's realistic , but it 's entertaining . 
i do like that . 
occasionally i 'll see that one . 
let 's see . 
i watch cheers sometimes . and , mostly just movies , when there 's a good movie on . 
do you ? 
when there is n't a good movie on , too . 
i just like to have the t v on if i 'm home alone or something 
either the radio or the t v -s got to be on , the whole time . 
i kind of have gotten into a couple of soaps lately . 
i have a baby , 
and so i have n't seemed to have gotten out as much , 
so i 'll watch a soap occasionally . 
do you watch any of those ? 
i do n't , because i work all day . 
i usually do if i 'm home for a couple of days around christmas or whatever , 
after a while i 'll start watching it 
for a while i 'll ask people if they know what happened 
and then i 'll just forget it . 
what ones do you get into ? 
i do n't even remember 
the last time i watched was back in college . 
it was general hospital or something 
and i maybe watched it for a week 
they would n't take a class that was in the middle of their soap opera . 
how funny , 
i do n't get into them that much . 
when i 'm home , sometimes in the day i 'll watch them 
but i was really trying to think . 
i do n't even know if there 's any other shows that i watch or else . 
you said you have kids . 
how old ? 
i have a six year old , 
he 'll be a year old in january . 
so , you are n't a sesame street fan ? 
they watch it . 
he 's outgrown that one a little bit , 
but , i 've started to turn it on a little bit for the baby , 
and he 's entertained by it . 
so 
i do watch that one . 
supposed to be a great babysitter . 
they 're not entertained for too long with it . 
he 's still too little , 
but 
i do turn that on . 
and i do like donahue . 
sometimes i watch that . 
i think he has some interesting things on it . 
i know , 
what time is that on , 
i never see it ? 
it 's on at four . 
i 'm not home then , 
that 's why i do n't see it . 
i 'll watch that occasionally . 
i do n't know , 
there 's some real weird people that , he seems to come up with . 
is n't it strange how people are fascinated by other people that they think are strange ? 
he does have some real bizarre things , i think . 
so , other than that , i do n't know . 
what 's that ? 
guess i 'm not much of a t v person really . 
i guess it was n't a real good topic for us , 
but . tell me , 
is it snowing up there ? 
it snowed a little bit probably about four days ago 
and they said we were n't going to get any more for christmas . 
. but do you have snow on the ground now ? 
there is snow on the ground . 
that 's nice . 
i wish it would snow a little bit more . 
i 've heard it 's raining there . 
we 've broken all sorts of records . 
we still have some highways closed , 
and it stopped raining almost twenty-four hours ago . 
but just phenomenal , 
you see it on the news all the time , 
but until you 've really seen it , it does n't really hit you . 
but i was driving home from work friday , 
and i saw , there were some stop signs submerged up to the writing on the stop sign , 
it was amazing to me . 
so there has been some flooding 
there 's been a lot , 
it 's too bad 
but the thing is that this happens , 
in the last three years it 's happened at least once a year , if not twice . 
but the people continue to move back in the flood zones . 
so , i do n't know . 
you got to wonder how long they 're going to keep doing that for . 
i do n't think i would . 
because they just finished cleaning up from the last flood . 
what a mess . 
do you work for t i ? 
i do , 
. this has been an interesting thing to do . 
have you made a lot of calls 
i 've probably talked maybe to five people . 
my husband is doing it too , 
and he 's talked to a few more than me , 
but it 's been real interesting and kind of fun . 
do you get paid for these ? 
five dollars . 
five dollars a call ? 
i wish i could do that . 
we ca n't get paid for it . 
do n't you have to do it , 
so what kind of home repair work have you done ? 
done a little repair on the shingles on the roof recently . 
we 've had a lot of wind around here . 
been pulling them up or just loosening them until the rain came in ? 
it looks like i 'm going to have to get up there again , because we may have a leak . 
are you in the section of texas that 's been getting so much rain ? 
we 've been getting quite a bit , maybe not quite as bad as some of the folks down around san antonio , 
plano 's just north of dallas 
and there are parts of downtown or near downtown dallas that are under water right now , i guess , 
i saw on the news . 
but you 're probably about halfway across the state from san antonio , though , are n't you ? 
we 're north and about eighty to a hundred miles south of the oklahoma line , i guess . 
but you 're still getting a good bit of the rain , though . 
we did have a little bit of rain yesterday . 
so far we have n't had any today . 
and i suppose that means i should be getting up there to look at that shingle , 
but i had something else planned today , 
so i guess i 'll let it go awhile . 
is it asphalt shingles , 
they 're wood shake . 
that should be a lot of fun . 
did you put them up originally or just going up and stopping leaks in them ? 
as a matter of fact , we 've never had a leak actually yet . 
we just bought the house last year , 
and just before we took possession of it we had a fellow go up there and do whatever needed to be done on the shingles . 
so , i 've just recently had to start looking at it myself . 
so , it 's a small problem so far , 
but i guess you just have to keep on top of it . 
what kind of roof do you have ? 
we 're in campus apartment buildings with flat top , 
then you do n't have to do too much with it . 
not too much . 
they 're just tar and gravel treated flat top roofs . 
have you got pretty well pitch on that roof , 
or is it pretty steep ? 
it 's pretty steep . 
parts of it are steeper than others . 
what do you use to keep from sliding off that rascal ? 
you wear shoes with good traction , and try to remember where you are at all times . 
i imagine , 
i imagine . 
and remember to yell geronimo , if all else fails . 
that would be just too much of a fall for me . 
was the house reasonably new , 
or you been doing some remodeling work on it . 
it 's actually just twelve years old , now . 
that 's pretty new house yet . 
this part of the country , actually , they say that when the house is fifteen , it 's already old , 
but just take good care of it . 
thing is , the main thing that we 've had with this house recently has been some squirming of the foundation . 
we 're just on a concrete slab 
but the soil right under this is a clay , 
it 's settling unevenly ? 
depending on its moisture content , it either swells up or shrinks , 
and of course the soil right under the slab retains its moisture a lot longer 
and so during the dry season you have to water the foundation to keep your foundation from , drooping 
but anytime there 's a change in the weather , like drastic changes in temperature or in moisture you get little spider web cracks all around windows and doors . 
that sounds like a lot of fun . 
usually what you do is just wait until you think it 's stopped , 
and then you patch them up . 
what is it 
it 's all drywall 
drywall . 
wood framing ? 
but somehow or other that does manage to show these little cracks . 
i do n't know quite how that works . 
maybe it is n't drywall . 
i do n't really know . 
they plastered over drywall . 
i think it is . 
i remember my parents home is drywalled 
i expect that 's what it is , 
and made for kind of a hard shell on the drywall . 
i think that 's the way this is done . 
fortunately we have n't had any real big holes in it yet 
that 's good . 
that would be terribly , terribly exasperating to have the slab floor swelling and giving like that . 
the previous owner had a major problem with it , because probably a variety of things . 
do you have any children ? 
i have two boys , twelve and sixteen . 
twelve and sixteen . 
how about you ? 
i have three , 
and they 're five and three and nineteen months . 
so we kind of got different ball game 
do you feel like you have any time , to spend with them ? 
they 're probably at an age where they do n't want to spend any time with their parents . 
that 's true . 
you actually , of course , spend less time with them when they get older , 
but it 's , of course , still really important . 
i have a kind of a fortunate situation right now with my sixteen year old . 
i 'm a librarian 
and i work two nights a week at the senior high school library . 
they keep it open for kids to do their work 
and then the school district hires an aide to work for me . 
my son is my aide . 
that 's nice . 
so , two nights a week for four hours we 're stuck together 
you 're stuck together . 
and there 's usually not very much business . 
some nights it 's just real , real quiet . 
i would suspect your nights would be pretty quiet for the most part . 
so i have sort of a captive audience , 
so i really do spend probably more time with him than most . 
but of course i 'm away from my other son those hours , too . 
but his dad 's at home pretty much that time . 
and so that kind of gives him time with his dad , then . 
that 's true , 
gives him a little bit of that individual time . 
but it is hard , once they get that age , 
their friends are the most important thing there is . 
that 's right . 
i 've even noticed that with my five year old . 
she started kindergarten this year , 
and every day that she 's not at school she thinks we need to have someone over and play 
it 's kind of hard . 
it 's hard , 
i think i find myself getting my little projects going and not taking the time that i should . 
i 'm more worried about , i did n't , 
the kitchen needs to be cleaned 
this needs to be done , 
and i need to remind myself to slow down 
and it 'll still be there tomorrow . 
that 's true . 
but that 's kind of hard to do . 
it is hard to do , 
if you 're kind of a person that likes things organized or neat 
then i think it is hard . 
i think one of the nice things about holidays is that it does give you the opportunity to spend more time with family . 
slow down a little bit . 
we often go to illinois for christmas , 
and we 're not this year , 
and it 's just really nice because we can do the things you want to do . 
you can do more than when you travel . 
that 's right . 
this is the first year we 're staying home , too , 
and i think it 's going to be real quiet 
but that 's an opportunity to get out the games 
we usually do that , 
my twelve year old got out the legos which of course he has n't touched since last summer 
of course . 
but every now and then he 's got a lot of those hard kind , , 
and he wants to be an engineer , 
so he still likes all that kind of building stuff 
and we have the train , 
and we have n't had that lego train together for years , 
so he sat down , 
and i told him i really wanted him to build the train , and we would put it under the tree , and that i would keep it together , 
i would n't take it apart 
would n't take it apart after that . 
and every year i 'd have the lego train under the tree . 
that 'd be kind of fun . 
so he worked on that for the longest time , ever since school was out on friday , 
and then his sixteen year old brother started helping , too . 
those kinds of things never happen 
i think that 's a lot of the breakdown of the communication and the communication that would take place in a family , 
usually people are not sitting in front of that . 
and there 's always a few people in the family that , when they stare at it they 're totally turned off to everything else . 
and you ca n't communicate while you 're doing that ? 
that 's right . 
i should n't say i could not , 
but be very hard for me to sit down and watch a program all the way through without doing something . 
me too . 
i do n't watch very much of it at all , to the extent that sometimes i feel almost embarrassed at work and stuff like that 
because they talk so much , 
they talk about t v shows , 
how can you watch that 
you 're kind of what are you talking about 
it 's the best show on , 
i do n't know . 
you feel like you 're a little bit out of it , do n't you . 
what vacations have you been on that you like ? 
i really enjoyed , 
i went to mackinaw island a few years back . 
it 's in the middle of michigan 
and so that was nice . 
i like driving to different cities because of the scenery , 
so that was nice . 
most of yours is kind of driving 
i 've been all over the states except for pretty much east . 
it 's very pretty driving up north in wisconsin too . 
how far do you usually end up driving 
the furthest i drove was probably texas , 
and then i 've taken a train before to california . 
you 're from where ? 
wisconsin . 
kenosha , wisconsin . 
i have a brother in minnesota that used to live in wisconsin . 
that 's quite a ways . 
it is . 
we went to california this last year and liked it , 
but it was too crowded 
walt disney world , and other places , it 's just the wrong time of the year to go . 
and course you get in any of those tourist traps and everything 's outrageously priced , 
you wonder if it 's really worth it to pay thirty-five dollars or forty dollars just to get in . 
but , there 's lots of fun places to see . , 
that 's true . 
that 's something do to , 
you like to get up in mountains 
do you have any mountains nearby ? 
pretty flat , is n't it ? 
i think the biggest limitation is a lot , just time and money , is n't it . 
what vacation have you enjoyed the most ? 
. probably when we go to wisconsin . 
it 's pretty fun . 
there 's a lot to do up there . 
it 's pretty busy , though , 
you have to like crowds . 
what is it ? 
it 's a huge amusement park , 
they have water slides 
and it 's just a big , big tourist attraction . 
the downtown is all little shops and candy shops 
and , it 's really neat . 
i do n't think hardly anybody lives there , 
because it 's just kind of tourists . 
probably a city in itself , kind of ? 
it 's mostly a summer place . 
summer place . 
how far away is it ? 
from kenosha , it 's about three hours . 
it 's about a hour away from madison . 
so that 's nice . 
it 's a pretty ride up there , too . 
i really like the city wausau in wisconsin . 
it 's really pretty . 
it 's nice out there . 
i like all the nature things there are to look at . 
you 're in a climate that 's kind of humid , 
so you have probably a lot of green , and lot of real pretty things . 
our climate 's real dry 
where is that ? 
and you have to kind of get up into the mountains to get much of the greenery . 
most of the land 's pretty brown . 
you do n't have as much of the greenery like you have . 
where 's that ? 
idaho , is where i live , 
i have a little baby thinks he needs to cry now that i 'm on the phone . 
it 's by boise . 
you ever heard of boise ? 
and it 's fine , 
it 's nice . 
it 's , uh , lot different kind of . 
i lived in indiana for a while , 
and it 's a real different land and scenery than there . 
it 's kind of fun to have a little bit diversity , and things like that . 
i think there 's a lot of places down , even in southern utah , the canyon lands and bryce canyon 
and they 're gorgeous 
those are kind of fun places . 
we usually go over to bear lake in the summer , which is kind of on the border of idaho and utah , 
and the lake goes on forever , 
and that 's real pretty over there too . 
but i think i 'm kind of a summer vacationer . 
me too 
me too . 
unless i 'm going somewhere warm for the winter . 
that 'd be nice . 
the only things that i have returned have not been faulty , 
it 's been because of the size or some problem like that . 
i really have n't had to return things because they did n't perform the way they were supposed to . 
most they have a pretty good guarantee , 
the only thing i 've had lately is my kids got all these barbie kind of toys for christmas 
and it takes them less than a day 
and they 're broken in one way or another . 
maybe those type of products should be for older kids . 
what age are your children ? 
i have a five and a half and a three and a half year old that play with them . 
and i do n't think they 're unduly rough , 
but maybe they are . 
i do n't know . 
but a lot of the little barbie sets they come with real little pieces 
and they 're easily lost and easily broken 
my daughter is twenty-one now , 
so it 's been a while since we 've had barbie things . 
it 's been a while since they 've gone through the barbie stuff . 
but we did have barbies and things , 
seems to me that that became a craze when she was already third , fourth , fifth grade . 
so she was n't in it for very long before she was out of it , 
but i do n't remember her breaking a lot of stuff . 
i do n't . 
but i also do n't remember lots of little pieces 
they 've got so many different things with it now . 
that 's one thing they 've got . 
camping on the beach , and all of these come with tiny , tiny little plates and little sunglasses . 
my three and a half year old has wanted this ken doll , 
and so i finally got her a ken doll , 
and less than a week later the arm was broken . 
but they were real good about replacing it . 
that 's one nice thing , is they 're real good about replacing it . 
i guess if they 'll replace them , then they assume they should n't have broken . 
those little arms are supposed to twist almost any way 
any direction . 
she 's not that big of a girl that i think could really take a grip on it like a bigger kid could . 
the main thing that they had when my daughter was playing with barbies was just clothes . 
that was about it . 
that was about it . 
and the barbie doll itself is usually pretty durable and that kind of stuff 
and the main thing my kids seem to be into nowadays are electronics . 
my children are twenty-one and twenty-five and twenty-eight . 
is that right ? 
do you see that there 's a big problem with electronic things ? 
not really . 
we have n't had that much problem with things that we have bought . 
they seem to last . 
in fact , when they offer us extended warranties , we do n't buy them because we find we do n't need them . 
do n't buy them because you do n't need them . 
and it seems like it 's just an added tack on . 
plus a lot of the credit cards now will guarantee , 
if you purchase on your credit card then they put an extended warranty on it if it does n't work or if you have a problem with it in a certain period of time , 
so it seems like it 's a waste of money . 
you almost assume if you 're going to have problems with it , it 's usually before that warranty would expire 
the first one . 
and on a recliner once i bought an extended warranty for cleaning and stuff like that , 
and i never used it . 
you never even needed it . 
and so it seems ridiculous . 
and washers and dryers and things like that , i 've never had one go out . 
when they do go out , it 's either something my husband can buy the part and fix 
and we do n't even have a repairman come , 
or it means it 's old enough that it 's time to replace the whole thing . 
it 's time to replace it . 
i think these extended warranties are gimmicks , really . 
i do too . 
a lot of it . 
when we first married , we bought one on our t v 
and it was ridiculous . 
and they charge you a pretty good price for them too . 
they 're a pretty healthy price , 
and you 're trying to think maybe i 'll need this . 
my husband finally just put his foot down 
i do n't know . 
and he said we 're not going to buy any of these anymore , 
you probably got your worth out of it anyway . 
so we really have been fairly happy with things , 
but now we take good care of things 
and we do n't run out and buy a lot of things either . 
and since our kids are n't little anymore , i 'm not buying a lot of those little things that can get broken . 
you probably are real careful of the brands you buy 
you look at the consumer guide . 
and you go around 
what sort of camping do you like to do the most ? 
i do real rough type camping . 
i have a motor home . 
rough type ? 
motor homes can be a lot of fun . 
they really are . 
they really are . 
i 've enjoyed it . 
i 've never actually done any tent camping , 
but one of these days i 'm going to try that , too . to go visit the national parks and state parks and , just get out and see nature . 
that can be a lot of fun , too . 
how about you ? 
so far my wife and i have pretty much had to stick with tent camping . 
this summer we went to the smokey mountain national park . and stayed about three or four days in there . 
how great . 
it was wonderful . 
nights were cool enough to where they 're comfortable . 
and the days were nice and warm 
and , it was beautiful , beautiful few days . 
that 's great . 
it worked out particularly well , especially considering she was six months pregnant . 
so , i do n't know , 
it worked pretty well . 
it was one of those , dome type pop up tents . 
nice and quick and easy to put up . 
packs away nice and small 
and , about had to be something like that getting around in a pinto . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
it was a lot of fun . 
i guess the last real camping trip i took has been a couple years ago . 
i went to california up to the sequoias . 
that 's got to be beautiful territory . 
it 's gorgeous , 
i love the big trees . 
just the drive up the coast line 
and then cut over into the parks , 
it 's gorgeous , though . 
what , 
sequoia national park ? 
i had been there before when i lived in california , 
but that 's my first trip back in thirty years maybe . 
but , that is god 's country , 
it has to be . 
do they still have the scenic roadways that cut through the center of some of those trees ? 
they do n't , 
the first time i was there , the tree was still standing , 
but it has since come down . 
but , they are huge . 
if you 've never seen them , it 's very awe inspiring . 
so far , new orleans is far west as i 've gotten . new orleans and minneapolis . 
there is lots of pretty country further west . 
we 're hoping one of these days soon after we 're out of school to head that way . 
and you just need to take the little one . show them all the pretties before they go away . 
they seem to be trailing out quickly . 
because there is lots to see . 
there is , course , the grand canyon 
and the painted desert is real pretty , in a different sort of way . 
and , course , the sequoias and the redwoods 
, and you get up into bryce canyon and yellowstone 
and the grand tetons are gorgeous , too . 
i imagine . 
i would imagine they are . 
course , i guess i 'm partial to big tree country . 
i do n't know why i got stuck down here in texas now . 
i think it 's called a job , 
i do n't know . 
not a whole lot of forestry down there , is there ? 
not around here . 
not around here . 
place is forested with those concrete trees . 
lot of concrete and glass . 
i guess that 's god 's place , too . 
anyway what do you figure has been the longest trip you 've taken camping ? 
probably the last one that i went to california 
i took three weeks . 
three weeks . 
and i was actually on the road a little more than three weeks . 
the whole family , then , was in on this ? 
everybody . 
that would have to be a blast . 
it really was , 
it was great . 
what , 
you went out from texas up into that area ? 
we took the southern route and went through the grand canyon , again 
and we stopped at las vegas for a couple of nights , and then went into malibu in california over on the coast . 
and then we went up the big sur highway all the way up to san francisco . and then cut across through the wine country . and then went down to , sequoia national park . 
big sur highway , that 's where you 're pretty much in view of the ocean almost all the time are n't you ? 
the cowboys are my favorite team . 
that 's pretty easy to say nowadays . 
lot easier than it was a couple years ago , 
but they had a big win today . 
did you get to watch it ? 
i did n't . 
i have been at my computer all day 
are you a cowboy fan ? 
i used to be a real big cowboy fan 
and , i 'm not a jimmy johnson fan . 
being an okie i just really do n't care much , 
it 's kind of hard not to be a cowboy fan , though . 
they 've always been my favorite . 
and i guess i still have a soft spot . 
i just hate that that 's the coach that 's leading them . 
they 're in the playoffs ? 
they made it to the playoffs finally 
just two years ago they were one and fifteen . 
they won like just one game 
and so pretty fast turnaround . 
but this year they made it to playoffs 
and today was the first game 
and they beat the chicago bears 
so everybody 's really going crazy down here . 
i 'll bet they are . 
they 're going crazy , 
so they turned it around , 
but they have a lot of young exciting players now , 
everybody was real upset when they fired tom landry , 
but now it 's like they 're doing good 
so everybody 's forgotten about that . 
football fans are probably the most fickle people in the world . 
hit a bad season and it 's the coach 's fault , 
let 's dump him . 
first good season , the coach can do no wrong . 
. 
they have a young team . 
it 's a lot different than the teams they used to have where it 's the same old players every year and same coach , same everything , 
so , now it 's like a taste of something different . 
they 're all not mister nice guys like they used to be . 
now it 's tough and dirty team 
so everybody is really excited . 
who is the competition going to be ? 
it 's supposed to be the redskins , 
but we beat them already . 
we beat them this year in washington 
so everybody has the feeling like we can go all the way to the super bowl , 
but it 's just that we have to play every game away , 
it 's going to be tough , 
the competition are teams that they 've already beat this year , 
so atlanta , they 're in it , too , 
and we beat them 
and detroit , we play them next week , 
but we should beat them . 
everybody feels like we should be able to beat them 
so everything 's , looking real good . 
course , i think you ca n't really go by what happened earlier in the season because teams jell together or they 've had injuries that heal 
and it could be almost a totally new team out there than the one we played . 
the cowboys are on a roll . 
they 've won six or seven in a row now , 
so they 're supposed to be the hottest team in the league going into the playoffs 
but since you have an o u drop out as a quarterback , 
troy aikman , 
he got hurt at o u , 
so he transferred to u c l a . 
he really did n't feel like he 'd be able to do a lot of passing at o u . 
o u has always been known for their running game . 
they 're playing tonight in fact . 
i 'm watching them on t v right now . 
but they 're doing some stomping on virginia . 
i tell you , 
they 've not had much of a team this year , 
bless their little hearts . 
they 're doing good tonight . 
are they ? 
i have n't been watching . 
they 're winning . 
they 're winning forty-one to seven . 
good for us . 
and that 's right , 
aikman did go to o u . 
i forgot about that . 
then he went out to southern cal . 
is that where he went ? 
u c l a . 
but , the cowboys did good today . 
i was proud . 
i thought they would get beat today because they 're so young , 
playoffs , 
are you presently looking for a used car ? 
as a matter of fact , i just bought one . 
just bought one . 
just within the last three weeks . 
what did you get ? 
i got a lexus l s four hundred . which is made by toyota . 
lexus . 
lexus is a toyota subbrand . 
i was wondering where that came from 
because they 're talking like it was an american built car . 
it sounds like it , 
but it really is n't . 
it 's marketed , of course , it its own dealerships . 
usually , 
sometimes they do that , 
but it 's a brand car , 
but i 've really liked it . 
it drives just wonderfully 
it 's so quiet , 
almost ca n't tell the engine is running . 
that 's their big selling point other than general luxury 
but the particular seems to be the quiet ride . 
it really is . 
it 's got pretty good acceleration , too . 
it 's got a c d player in it , 
so i can play those 
that was n't a standard , feature , was it ? 
but there is not very many options on that car . 
there is only about five or six options . 
everything else is standard . 
some of the tracking control things and skidding control things for up north . the c d and the premium sound system . 
skidding control , 
you mean the antilock brake system ? 
it 's kind of a traction control . 
it 's not just antilock brake . 
i think that 's already on most of them , 
but there is a further traction control , 
this is probably suspension tied into the brakes . 
and also the suspension can be raised for driving in the ice and snow . 
it can raise the car 's center up a little bit . for going under a lot of piled up stuff if you were up in michigan or somewhere . 
mississippi probably does n't have to worry too much . 
some of these muddy driveways could use it around here . 
snow does n't happen very often . 
if it does , people go , what 's this stuff . 
originally i 'm from west virginia . 
we got a pretty fair amount of snow . 
you had some there . 
but i got down here in june of eighty-four , 
and the first winter down here was probably the worst winter they 'd seen in twenty years , 
and it was amazing how a few inches of snow would turn normally sane , manly , adult men into playful little children . 
i know . 
we had this group of surveyors come into a shop i was working in four or five of them , 
these big old flame worn suburbans and the snow all over the place . 
they had just come in to get gas in their vehicles and get the oil checked . 
but , while they were there they set back , drank about four or five cups of coffee apiece and made snowmen on the hoods of their vehicles threw snowballs all over the place , had themselves a ball for about an hour . 
and the moon roof is also an option . 
although most of them are ordered with it , 
but there really is only about a half a dozen things 
and everything else is pretty standard . 
i did not get the traction control which , when you take the traction control , and the suspension thing it also puts heaters in the front seats , too . 
you go out and get in that real cold car 
it 's a package deal . 
and you turn that on , 
but that 's only available with the traction control and the other option . 
and those two are sold together 
so you have to take a two thousand dollar option there to , do it , 
and , the dealership i dealt with , they order them all with the moon roof and nice floor mats and everything in there . 
it does n't sound real necessary in texas . 
i worked for lincoln , 
so the only thing i had to decide on was whether i wanted a c d or not in the stereo system 
and that was pretty much it . 
and they had like three or four basic packages that they offer . 
sounds like the lincoln mercury dealer i used to work for . 
they did n't order anything but the extra luxury version of whatever they got . 
little mercury tracer 
imagine , or not , 
they make a luxury mercury tracer . 
i 've seen that in the dealership . 
i was driving a lincoln , a mark seven for the last four years before i traded it for this 
and i 'm leasing the lexus . 
i usually lease them since i own a business 
i just run it through my business , 
the lincoln ride is certainly good , too , 
but this lexus is nothing like i have ever been in before . 
like sitting in your living room . 
it really is , 
and it 's got a lumbar support in the seats . 
adjustable ? 
adjustable power 
what do you think about the school system ? 
i think they 're having a lot of trouble right now . 
i know my son goes to a private school , 
but i think big city public schools by definition are having a tough time right now probably from budget cuts and everything else going on . 
why did you choose a private school ? 
i had one that needed to be able to be moved along at a pace a little faster than he was going to be able to be moved in public school , 
so he has been going to private since kindergarten . 
public school . 
has he ? 
then how does he like it ? 
he 's loved it . 
he is a senior in high school this year 
so he 's been there all the time . 
he 's done it the whole twelve and so many years 
and it 's been really good for him . 
how big of a school is it ? 
overall on campus about twelve hundred , but in the upper four grades , about four hundred and something 
so it 's maybe a hundred per grade . 
a hundred per grade , that 's a good size . 
it really is . 
i get a little leery of the real small ones that they do n't get much interaction with kids 
we were kind of looking for one that would be a mixture 
and he 's done really well , 
that 's good . 
and he was just ahead at an early age 
and even in the fourth grade where they started what they called reach was still a pull out one day program . 
and i just did n't think that was going . 
i thought he needed to be exposed to a situation where he could push ahead every day . but yet still be with his peers age wise . 
my oldest is in kindergarten , 
so i 'm in a little different ballgame . 
you 're just getting started . 
i 'm just , starting her , 
but seems to me that kids these days can really get away with murder 
and the teachers are n't respected as much 
and they have to be so careful of the things they do and say . 
i know . 
that 's a big problem . 
and makes me a little nervous that students do n't seem to show that respect 
we would n't have thought of crossing a teacher when we were in school . 
would n't have thought of it 
and they 'll stand there now with them toe to toe 
you would n't . 
and the things they can say and do to a teacher i think that 's wrong . 
i think we need to get back to show some respect 
and , course , i guess the teacher used to warrant that 
but a lot of times it 's not being taught in the home anymore like it used to be , basic respect for elders and adults particularly in responsible positions , 
i do n't think have , had that basic upbringing in a lot of cases 
for other people 
and so then you wind up with little brats on your hands . 
how do you think that that 's happened ? 
you think our society 's just stopped talking out , 
or this generation 's just kind of changed a little bit , 
the world changes , 
so obviously , kids are not the same now as they used to be . 
they 're exposed to a whole lot more things . 
they have a whole lot more variety of things that they see and do at an earlier age , 
so life is not maybe as simple as it was at one time , 
but i think it goes back to a commitment by the parents to teach basic values and basic respectful -ness of authority . 
and i just do n't think that this does n't always get emphasized anymore , 
that just is n't coming through is it . 
i remember it was a big thing when they let girls wear levi 's . 
we used to have to wear dresses 
had to wear dresses , did n't you ? 
and then you had to , go to dresses , 
they had to be a pantsuit 
and it was polyester 
and it had to be matching 
and when it was skirts , it was get down on the floor 
and we hold the ruler up here 
and it 's no more than so many inches above the knee . 
because it was mini skirt time back there at one time . 
so it 's really changed . 
it 's really kind of gone the rounds , 
so i think that maybe that 's effected it to some degree . 
they say you kind of act how you 're dressed a little bit , 
i think that probably does have something to do with it , 
this school your son goes to , do they require to wear a uniform 
they do not do uniforms , although one , where he was between second and eighth grade did . 
i guess tonight 's subject is woodworking . 
what kind of woodworking do you do ? 
kind of , mainly the woodworking i 've done lately is made for example a little nativity scene . 
not the whole figurines and so forth , but mainly the stable , 
put some shelves in 
and some odd stuff around the house 
and so i enjoy doing a little bit of woodworking 
and i do it out of hobby more than something i have to do . 
how about yourself ? 
i like to think of it as a hobby , 
but i guess also , partly out of necessity . just repairing things around the house . 
a few years ago they needed some book shelves 
and i kind of drew up some simple plans to make some book shelves 
and it actually worked pretty well 
and over the years i 've refined those plans . 
i got myself a router 
and i 'm very good at making book shelves . 
it 's also a way of relieving stress . 
my wife kind of laughs , at me that anytime i get stressed out i just go out in the garage and we 've got more book shelves . 
i 'll have to come and see them . 
that sounds like a good idea . 
and that is right , 
it is out of necessity because lot of the things that , we ca n't be able to afford , 
but also i sometimes think that i enjoy doing that 
and i like to get out and , to work with my hands 
and sounds like you got some real nice tools , too . 
do you think you would be able to do some more if you had more tools and different tools ? 
little by little , 
i started out with just basic hand tools and kind of added on to things . 
gotten a good belt sander 
and , the router helps a lot because you can make better joints with a router . 
the latest project that i 've been working on is a cabinet to put a t v in . 
a entertainment type center ? 
and it , works well because you can design it to suit whatever equipment you have 
so i designed a space just the right size for the t v and then the v c r and shelves on the side for my stereo equipment . 
and that 's worked pretty well . 
i guess dado joints is what it 's called . 
or 
i 'm aware of that . 
and also with a router , you can make ornamental facings , too better than a just straight wood edge . and , casings and so forth that are real nice , 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
so that 's good . 
that 's good . 
but what i need next is a good table saw . 
and i debate whether it 's better to get just a straight table saw or to get one of these rotary arm saws . 
radial arm saw is what they 're called . 
it seems to me the radial arm saw is better , 
it takes up less room . 
you set the wood down 
and you move the saw . 
whereas if you 're ripping wood , you 're probably better off with a table saw . 
and with a radial arm saw , if you do have a big piece of wood that you need to rip or cut , you would n't be able to do that . 
but 
a table saw does take a lot of space and is a pretty big investment . 
that 's partly my problem now . 
i do n't have room for this . 
where we lived before up north basements were common 
and , i used to put all the stuff in my basement , 
but not so here in texas . 
they do n't have basements . 
i 'm from up north also 
and , 
there 's no basements down here 
and it 's kind of hard to get shop space unless you have a dedicated shop or a dedicated room for that . 
lot of the equipment , too , that i 've used in the past i 've used in school 
i do n't know , 
i 'd kind of like to look at equipment like a lathe or a table saw and some of those things that would make some pretty nice pieces of wood , for different things for tables , for , chairs , for decks and so forth 
so , i do n't know , 
i just enjoy woodworking 
and i think the main thing is , like you say , it 's a good out . 
it 's an opportunity to get out and relieve some of the pressure that you feel day to day 
and it 's a great stress reliever . 
have you ever used a lathe ? 
in school i have 
and i 've made different things tables for chairs 
and i 've made bowls , 
what do you think about child care . 
my feelings on it is i would n't take a child to day-care . 
you know ? 
probably find someone , 
how come you would n't take them to a day-care ? 
too many kids and too many infections and things coming in . 
i do n't know , 
then all the things you hear about them . 
i 'm sure there 's some good ones , 
it was a preschool day-care type of thing . 
but i liked it some ways 
and some ways i did n't . 
i think the ratio of kids to teacher is really important . 
how was it ? 
i think they had two teachers 
and i think there were twenty kids , 
but i only had her going two days 
and most of the other kids were going more days 
she went , 
one thing i noticed is just , they were trying to , teach her to write her name , 
and i did n't notice it until this summer when i was working with her that she would bend her wrist all the way not in a natural form . 
she did ? 
she was holding her pencil in the right fingers and stuff . 
wrapping her arm all the way around . 
and i had n't worked with her on writing at all at that point . 
she was four , or three , 
it was last year 
and then this summer i got the thing from the school that says things to work with the kids on 
like i said , i did n't notice it till then . because i had n't worked with writing letters or anything and stuff like that . 
they 'd never picked it out , though ? 
or just never said anything . 
course , like i said , i took her two days a week 
my main reason for taking her was just social skills more than anything else . 
just , i did n't feel like she was mature enough socially 
one thing that 's kind of different , too , though , a preschool than taking a infant at a day-care where they 're taken care of . 
i think it would be hard to take them to people you do n't know . 
preschool 's a different thing , 
but i think it 's hard to take kids to somebody you do n't know unless you have awfully good references . reliable people , 
i do n't know , 
it 's so hard to take young kids anywhere for very long . 
i think it 's hard to leave them , 
it is . 
it is . 
the older ones it 's not , 
you do n't even really have any real worries , because you know that they 'll play with whoever 's there 
and they usually adapt pretty well . 
it is just hard to leave them because nobody will give them the kind of care their own families will . 
and you know kind of their schedules 
and you know if they 're upset and that type of a deal . 
i do n't know how people that have young kids working work full time and do it , really , without being stressed out all the time . 
i do n't know , 
then on the other hand i think it 's harder to stay home in some regards . 
it 's hard to always keep yourself feeling like you 're doing something productive , 
and at the end of the day your house still feels like it 's a mess , 
and you have n't got anything done 
what am i going to fix for supper . 
it 's kind of hard to always feel , is this important what i 'm doing 
the work never ends . 
that 's for sure . 
it does n't . 
but , i think probably people that take them to , preschools and day-cares full time they would probably just feel different , 
i just think it would be hard to do that full time . 
are they driving the baby-sitter crazy 
or is everything okay . 
universal health insurance , 
that 's right . 
is that what you 're thinking the subject is about ? 
what would we like to say . 
i think that 's what the subject is about . 
did you read the article in the paper today about this particular subject ? 
in the morning times ? 
i guess i did not . 
the state of washington and the state of minnesota is going to begin testing a state funded program for citizens of those two states 
and there 's fourteen other states that are considering it . least according to the article in the paper this morning . 
i think it 's a trend that probably may go nationwide eventually because i think national health is something that we all need . 
it 's getting to a point that you have to have it , 
you have to have some form of health insurance . 
extremely expensive , though . 
we live in a society , though , where everyone if you ask them on polls , will say that they think that everyone has a right to health care . 
and yet , i do n't think we 've ever quite decided who 's really supposed to pay for it . 
that 's the thing , 
unfortunately the ones that currently pay and pay the premiums for health insurance are paying for the people that do n't have health insurance . 
we ought to just admit it perhaps and then try and somehow subsidize it in a way that 's more fair . 
you have health insurance ? 
i do . 
through your company ? 
through my company , 
but i have been in a situation recently where i was laid off from a position as a sales manager of a company and was off work for about a year 
and my wife developed cancer . 
we did n't have any insurance . 
and it was a go to parkland type situation . 
that must have been hard . 
how was your care at parkland ? 
because it was a life threatening situation , it was very good . 
as it turned out one of the top doctors in the state that is involved in cancer treatment was at parkland . 
but , yet , parkland is not free , either . 
it 's not free , 
but it 's a situation that because i did n't have any insurance and i was on unemployment , it was paid by the county . 
is it affordable ? 
so you did have a good experience . 
i had a bad experience as it turned out . 
i was fortunate that there was parkland . 
is your wife better , i hope ? 
she passed away . 
i 'm real sorry . 
that 's all right . 
that happens . 
it does happen , 
but it 's very sad . 
but in any event i 'm in favor of national health . if i had to vote for it . 
so am i . 
actually i 'm a pediatrician 
is that right ? 
and i feel very strongly about children , and developed very strong feelings about this during our measles epidemic last year . where we certainly proved that we 're not doing a very good job with preventive health care among children and particularly the children who need it most . 
so i 'm really quite active in trying to be proactive at least for children 's issues . 
it 's very complex , very complicated , 
but i strongly believe that all children have a right to immunization , glasses , hearing aids , basic health benefits . 
i grew up in south central kansas , 
and my mom worked for the county health department 
and we had x-rays every year , 
we had a dentist come to our school and check our teeth once a year at least . 
we had all our flu shots taken care of , our measles , mumps , rubella and all that other stuff . 
and when my children were growing up , we did n't have that . 
we had to pay for it , which i was n't opposed to paying for it . 
i had the money to pay for it , 
but i 'm sure that there were people that do n't . 
and so much has gone up so much . 
the cost of immunizations for example and just , the legal benefits 
that has really forced people into doing a lot of things unnecessarily , et cetera . 
i do n't know , 
it is interesting , 
in case you did n't know , texas leads the nation in uninsured children . 
thirty-one percent of all texas children do not have insurance and are not on medicaid . 
did not know that . 
so one out of every three children has nothing to reimburse them for their health care . 
and i work in the children 's parkland system 
and it 's pretty overwhelming to me . 
but it 's pretty hard to be indigent and to be dependent upon indigent health care systems in dallas county . 
all set , then . 
what do you think about it ? 
i think it 's a real good concept . 
drug testing procedures would have to be refined . 
from what i 've seen on the news , there 's a pretty good size problem with poor accuracy , poor procedure in drug testing . 
i did n't realize that . 
there have been people who have been turned down for jobs because there was a drug showed up in their , test , 
but they did n't know for sure what it was , 
but it was a drug , 
so they got turned down 
and turns out it was a prescription . or people getting somebody else 's blood test . 
that 's right , 
i do n't remember what they call it , sort of like a positive , negatives or some kind of word they use when you get a positive indication of drugs , but there were n't really any there . 
every now and then there 's an error 
and people are really upset about that when it comes to their rights and their rights being violated . 
i work here at texas instruments 
so do we , 
everyone coming in . 
i guess i did three years ago . 
everyone coming in goes through the drug testing procedure 
and they talk about it as better for the country and better for the working conditions . 
i ca n't even remember if we do random sampling anymore . 
i know we did in the military , 
but i do n't know if once you 're in they continue to do it , 
but i guess you 're always on call for it . 
i not very long ago worked for wal-mart 
and about a year and a half ago they instituted a , drug and alcohol testing program . 
as each employee comes in part of the hiring procedure is a blood test . 
but i think the big problem , though , is they send these off to large labs 
and then they have thousands and thousands of samples going through it in a day 
and bottles get mixed up , things like that . 
it 's a good idea , 
but like you said the drug testing procedures need to be defined a little better . 
make sure it 's a lot safer because a couple of people are going to be discriminated against unfairly or whatever . 
i tend to agree with you david . 
my brother used to work for wal-mart 
and then , i do n't know if he still does or what because i do n't know if sam 's is actually part of it , 
but he is working at sam 's now . 
sam 's is part of wal-mart . 
then he 's been working for the company for a while , too . 
good company 
he 's telling me about good profit sharing and all that , 
that was a great place to work . 
it 's good news . 
two or three years in with them you can start buying stock 
and you have a little taken out of your check each payday to put against wal-mart stock . 
but you can build a pretty fair amount of stock after a while . 
that 's what my brother was telling me . 
that 's good deal . 
i have n't done this in a couple months . 
how long were we supposed to discuss for ? 
you 're supposed to get five minutes . 
we got a couple more minutes then , i guess . 
think what else i can say about that . 
let 's see , 
you were tested for drugs as you got into t i ? 
everyone coming in goes through the drug test . 
were you asked to wait before starting to work until the drug test came through 
let me think about that . 
it was after , i had already been hired . 
you get hired , 
then you come in the first , 
seems to me i remember that i was hired , came in and went through some orientation 
i ca n't remember . 
that would seem strange to already be working here in the first week of the drug test . 
maybe it was during the interview . 
i came up a couple times for an interview , 
so it 's hard for me to remember where i was when all that happened . 
they have to wait for the drug test to come in before you actually get employment , 
so i 'm sure that happened to me , too . 
they just instituted it there at wal-mart 
, it was after i was already working there 
and they were n't testing any of those who were already working . 
considering you moved here from california , i guess , the rain for the past few weeks has been different than what you have down there . 
i lived in central california . 
we have rain couple times a year 
and other than that it would be maybe october and then in the spring 
and then other than that there would n't be any rain . 
especially the last few years . 
it 's kind of been a drought out there has n't it , 
here , i know that last year there was some ice storms while i was out of the state 
and i 'm glad to see there have n't been any this year . 
yet . 
yet . 
still could come , 
generally if we 're going to get them , it 's not going to happen prior to january one . 
you may get a cold snap or two or some rain or something like we 've been getting in december , 
but usually the bitterest weather , if we 're going to have any , comes in january and february . 
then by march things are getting warm again , 
so we really do n't have , as long a cold season as people up north . 
it 's so hard to predict here . 
it 's been eighty degrees on christmas day here before . 
lots of times . 
today it 's not bad out there . 
it 's nice . 
i just came in from outside 
and it 's really pretty . 
it 's kind of nice to have it dry all the ground out before it rains again . 
i 'm a scoutmaster 
and so i wind up going out camping with a bunch of boys at one time 
and so , it 's better for us if it has n't been this totally wet before we go . 
so you do that even in january ? 
we camp year round . 
that 's interesting . 
but it 's definitely different . 
and then , i guess you 've been through a couple of summers here , too ? 
i have 
and they 're not too pleasant . 
it gets so humid . 
to me it 's humid here . 
it is . 
it 's not as humid . as houston or atlanta , 
but more humid than arizona 
and california for the most part . 
were you northern california ? 
i was central california . 
central . 
central valley . 
so that was , dry , but pretty even climate , was n't it ? 
it 's very dry there . 
it 's pretty hot in the summer . 
for a good three , four weeks we have over a hundred degrees . 
but it 's a dry heat . 
hundred , when you have a hundred here , everybody 's dying . 
i know . 
i lived in africa for a couple years in cameroon 
and that 's a tropical climate 
and it really feels similar to this during the summer . 
what type of business takes you to those climates 
or was that just vacation or something ? 
i still work with wycliff bible translators . 
it 's an organization where we are looking to translate the bible into languages of the world that are n't yet written . 
not so much still trying to translate old texts as just trying to translate modern versions into other languages . 
languages that do n't have anything written yet . 
so this is the first thing that 's written down 
or first an alphabet is developed 
that 's interesting . 
you do n't think about that as a normal career , when you 're thinking of things that people might be doing . 
it 's based here , 
the international headquarters for wycliff bible translators is right here in dallas . 
so you 're with the home office now . 
right now i am . 
that 's what brought me here , 
i think all in all there are a lot worse climates than dallas , 
the weather does change fast 
and things do happen severely a few times a year , 
but there 's an awful lot of good weather , too , in between . 
i agree , 
i agree . 
i thought the fall was really nice . 
and usually a lot of the spring months are really nice , too . after the last freeze 
and when it begins to be in the sixties and seventies most of the time i like that . particularly if i 'm going to be outdoors and doing outdoor activity , hiking and things . 
and that 's nicer . 
you probably do a lot of that with scouting . 
i do quite a bit of that . 
think we 're going in just a couple of weeks out to east texas , 
and it is a little more humid out there than it is here , 
the only thing you have to watch out in this part of the country during the change type seasons is the really severe storms that occasionally come through out here on the plains . 
there 's not much between us and the north pole . 
tell me what you think about the vietnam war . 
i 'm a vietnam era veteran , 
and i was fortunate not to have to serve in the theater , 
however , my support roll in the service was to support those in the theater of operation . 
i 'm of the old school that believes that the contracts that we made back years ago needed to be honored . 
however i think we could have executed the war and gotten it over a whole lot quicker . 
but those are my personal thoughts , 
and i think that if we 'd let the generals run the war like we let the generals run world war two we 'd had got it over a whole lot quicker and lost a lot fewer people . 
but as it was , the politicians ran the korean conflict and ultimately the vietnam thing , 
and we managed to come out losers all the way around . 
and so this is what ultimately triggered us united states per se deciding to get out of the role of world policeman . 
your views , 
as i understand it we got in there because of france 
france was there first . 
we pledged a mutual defense of the south vietnamese , 
and as it turned out they were in a civil war one with another , 
i question us now , 
of course hindsight is all too clear . 
so , we have to deal with the situation as we played it . 
jerry , what did you think of people like jane fonda , another anti-war activist . 
do n't get me started on those people . 
before jane fonda did what she did , i thought she was a wonderful person , 
i just do n't want anything to do with her any more , 
because you support your government . 
right or wrong ? 
right or wrong , 
i do n't think we can determine whether we were right or wrong , 
i think we could have made a different agreement back in the late forties era that would have kept . 
i did n't realize that we 'd signed some type of deal like that . 
i thought we came in as first advisors to the french , and then they decided to pull out 
can you hold just a second , terry ? 
one moment . 
wonder what happens to this little beastie on call waiting or something . 
fascinating . 
sorry for the delay . 
that 's okay . 
it was complicated , 
and i do n't think everybody knows the whole situation . 
i do n't . 
but what i can gather , is we went and said we will help the south vietnamese should they ask . 
the french went in and tried their old style warfare , and got soundly thrashed . 
and we did n't do a whole lot better . 
i had thought that they had colonies there , or something . 
that was the old french colony , 
but the french were our allies in nato 
and they 're also our allies in seato , which was the southeast asia treaty organization , which has since been disbanded as far as i know , 
nato is on the way of being disbanded . 
we go in as an ally to the french and says we 'll help you out , if you get in a bind . 
they got in a bind and says we do n't want to play any more 
so we kind of got the ball rolling ourselves versus a bunch of top secret silly operations and then the full scale troops , et cetera , et cetera , et cetera . 
i 'm thirty-two , 
i missed it . 
seventy-four is when they quit sending troops . 
roughly . 
i was just probably three or four years , 
what kind of foods would you have ? 
i like to cook 
i do too . 
but i do n't like getting too awfully fancy about it , just because it 's too much pressure , 
if i have people over for dinner , i like it to be nice and relaxed . 
you ca n't enjoy it . 
and so i do n't like when they arrive , for me to be completely worn out . 
i like doing things like making lasagna just because i can have it ready and baking in the oven , 
everybody just says how wonderful it is , 
and it 's , 
that 's one of those things i got famous for in college . 
people would come and say would you come over and make lasagna for me . 
it 's i ca n't really give you a recipe 
you 'd just do it . 
i can just do it . 
i like doing that kind of stuff . 
and it 's fun , 
in fact that 's what we had for a christmas party last week . 
we just had a bunch of people over 
and we did lasagna and garlic bread 
and yummy . 
. i like that . 
i do too , in fact . 
and naturally this is appropriate because i 'm planning dinner for people tomorrow night and then the next night . 
so tuesday night there 'll be eight people here altogether . 
actually one thing we have done quite a bit through the holidays , just because it 's real easy , is just baked potato dinners . 
and have three or four couples come over , 
and i 'll do the potatoes and butter and cheese and stuff and have everybody else just bring a couple of toppings , whatever they like 
and it turns out great , because you 've got hot sauce and taco meat and barbecue and bacon and all that good stuff . 
that 's fun . 
but it 's inexpensive 
plus it 's real easy on the hostess , because you can just have the potatoes ready , and just have a salad with it , 
and you got a great dinner . 
that 's a good idea . 
it 's real easy , 
i like doing that part . 
i 'm in favor of very little clean up very little planning because we 've got three or four couples that we get together with to play games , 
we invariably end up at my house since i 've got two kids . 
and it 's fine , because then i can just say , , 
you bring this , 
you bring this , 
you bring this , 
we 're done . 
and it 's pretty cool . 
that 's good . 
one of my favorites is to make chicken and rice . 
you do n't like it ? 
i love it . 
you do , 
i have a really easy recipe for that , where you just brown the chicken 
and then you put rice in the bottom of the pan , 
you pour bouillon or chicken broth over it 
and you put the chicken in , then pour the broth over 
and you can put mushrooms in if you want , 
over the uncooked rice ? 
over uncooked rice 
and you can either microwave it or do it in the oven , 
how neat . 
it fluffs up , 
and it 's really moist . 
and every once in a while , i 'll slice white grapes 
and , that 's just because i 'm not a real big wine person 
but i like it , 
it adds something to the chicken . 
and then just bake it , 
and it makes a wonderful sauce over the rice . 
i 'll keep that one in mind . 
i could actually find something i could cook real easy that would be sort of elegant kind of . 
you can get away with it even having a semi nice dinner , 
or . 
but then , i had n't thought about doing it with uncooked rice . 
just in a thirteen by nine pan . 
let 's see , 
what was it , 
three quarters of cup of rice 
you can really vary it . 
but you have to put the water in proportionally . 
i ca n't remember . 
i think it was three quarters cup rice to two cups water , two cups broth . 
i use that for rice 
and for when i cook pasta or something , i 'll put a little bit of bouillon in there just to give it a little extra flavor . 
flavor . 
. that would be good . 
how long do you have to bake it ? 
let 's see . 
i think it was an hour . 
i 've done it in the microwave so often lately because , it 's really easy . 
i do microwave too , a lot . 
but , i think it 's about an hour . 
how long would it be in the microwave ? 
or maybe it 's only half hour . 
until the rice looks fluffy , and not overdone before it gets overdone . 
do you just brown the chicken to get it colored 
or do you go ahead and let it cook through ? 
i 'd let it cook just a little bit just so that the cooking goes a little faster . 
this is a beneficial call . 
i like this . 
i liked your idea too , there . 
but that one 's an easy one . 
a friend of mine makes it where she goes ahead and seasons up with the soup and the wine 
put in garlic and onion powder or chopped onions if you want to do that however much effort you feel like putting into it . 
i 've got a two year old and a four year old 
and they love it . 
because my daughter calls it her gravy 
and she thinks it 's wonderful , 
do you have any pets now ? 
we do n't right now , 
i grew up with pets . 
my folks and i always had a dog and a cat , some , birds , 
but right now we do n't have anything . 
what about you ? 
a matter of choice , or compulsion ? 
it seems like , we 've always been at a place where we 'd have to go away for the summer or something 
and it was , never convenient to have anything . 
we were thinking about getting a dog if we get into a house . 
we can take care of it and everything . 
we 've got , some children who would just really enjoy having an animal a dog , i think 
and , what about you all ? 
right now i 'm a student , 
and campus housing does not even allow thinking about that . 
we almost got chased out of here for feeding a stray cat . 
is that right ? 
they 're very strict about it . 
but you like pets and things ? 
i love animals . 
our house when i was growing up there was almost never at least one cat in the house . 
it was almost always at least one cat , sometimes fifteen or twenty . 
but always cats in the house . 
we , enjoyed them . 
we like pets , 
but you 've got to deal with taking care of them and feeding them and everything like that . 
we 've got some children 
and they 're not used to it on a daily basis . 
how old are your kids ? 
from fourteen down to seven . 
you sound like you 've got some small ones in the background . 
one . 
is that right ? 
our first . 
he 's about eleven weeks now . 
where are you from ? 
originally ? 
west virginia . 
i do n't know how familiar you are with that area of the country 
i 've been to charleston . 
charleston , west virginia ? 
that 's pretty much the south end of the state , or the southern quarter of the state , anyway ? . 
in the north end of the state , you 've got that little narrow strip of west virginia going up between ohio and pennsylvania . 
right at the base of that northern peninsula is my hometown . 
that 's interesting . 
so it 's really up north in the country , really . 
i guess so . 
my parents ' house is three miles south of where the mason-dixon line would have hit the ohio river had it continued that far . 
i see . 
it 's pretty nice country up there ? 
it 's beautiful . 
hills , or what ? 
from my neck of the woods , it 's hilly . 
maybe three hundred , four hundred feet elevation type variations from the valleys up to the hilltops . 
is it farmland ? 
not a lot of farmland there . 
there 's individuals growing their own food . 
most of the agriculture , it 's more in the way of sheep and cattle . 
and even that 's small time mostly . 
the biggest chunk of what 's going on there is , industry . 
it 's coal mines and chemical plants and power plants . 
aluminum plants . 
there 's two aluminum plants . 
what are you studying there at heidelberg ? 
computer engineering . 
what year ? 
just finished up my fourth semester . 
i hope that works out well . 
it 's a big change . 
i spent , twenty years as a mechanic 
did you ? 
you 've got some experience behind you in the work force . 
are you shooting for a bachelor 's now , or a master 's , or what ? 
i 'm working on a bachelor 's degree . 
i 'm working on a bachelor 's degree . 
hope it 's a good program there . 
hope it 's a good program there . 
that 's considered a pretty good program . 
it 's nice and small , which means if you do n't get the class this semester , then you 've got to wait anywhere from two to four semesters to get , it again . 
but it 's worth it once you get it . 
that 's good . 
and probably a good student teacher ratio and things . 
most are pretty small . 
that works out real well . 
i was wondering what , if you all were to get a pet if you were to move into an apartment or a house somewhere , 
what would you get ? 
first off we 'd probably wind up with a cat or maybe a puppy . 
i 'm partial towards the larger dogs . 
our last , we 've had a couple of cats before we moved on campus . 
had a hamster or two , 
and they got , to be a lot of fun . 
a hamster . 
you bet . 
they tell you our topic ? 
pets . 
you 've got it . 
do you have pets ? 
we do . 
my wife and i have a dog that soon be eight years old , 
and we have a cat , which is about five years old . 
how about you guys ? 
we have three dogs and two birds at this point . 
three dogs . 
what kind of birds do you have ? 
parakeets . 
enjoy them ? 
have a ball with them . 
you let them out and let them fly around and everything ? 
because my dogs chase them . 
so in order to have the birds not stuffed i have to keep them in their cages . 
this is like a cruelty joke , 
and i apologize if you 're a bird lover , 
but we had a parakeet . and , my fault , put up our first electric fan . and never thought about it . 
knocked that parakeet right out of the air . 
we had that happen once , 
my son had the bird back in his room , 
because the first one that we had was his bird , 
and i had a ceiling fan put up , 
and the bird got away from him one afternoon , 
and that sucker hit that fan and went flying up against the wall , 
i thought , so much for the bird . 
it killed him ? 
he 's still alive and kicking . 
it killed ours , 
i 'll be darned . 
i guess we did n't have it high enough or he did n't get hit in just the right spot , 
but it threw him up against the wall , 
and he slid down the wall . 
speaking of pets , i 'll tell you , my kids are older now , both of them are either in or out of college , 
but my son had a burmese boa constrictor , 
and that thing grew to be seven and a half feet in length , 
i hate them . 
and finally my wife , got rid of it , because i did n't really like it . 
one year down in florida on a vacation , for father 's day , my kids , years ago , maybe ten years ago , bought me a skunk from a exotic pet shop . 
it 'd been deactivated as far as smell and everything , 
and we had that darn pet skunk for about five years , 
and my son left , went to school , 
we finally sold his boa constrictor , 
but my son needed some money , 
and we sold it for about two hundred and fifty dollars . 
you 're kidding . 
so , when the guy came over , he was infatuated by that skunk , 
so i made him a deal , 
i said , you take that skunk , 
and , he said , i 'll sell that snake to you for two fifty . 
i said , otherwise i 'm going to give it to this other man . 
so he took the skunk , too . 
that 's pretty good . 
but , they just stink too much . 
that was sort of fun , 
i tell everyone this story because my wife is a real pet lover . 
many times my wife would be lying there on the sofa , 
and this snake honestly would be stretched across the top of her body with his head right on her neck 
you 're kidding . 
and the skunk would be sitting at her feet , 
but the cat would be on the back of the sofa , 
and a dog would be running around crazy . 
in fact my brother has a exotic pet shop out in california , 
and he keeps threatening to send a snake through the mail , 
i 'm going do n't do that , because they wo n't come in my house . 
my son bought this snake mumblex 
someone gave it to him when he was in junior high school , 
and it was just a small thing then , 
but it got to be pretty big , 
and you feed him small mice to big rats and things like that 
it 's just too much . 
that snake used to watch our cat walk around . 
i always told my wife your friend 's going to get our cat one of these days . 
that is wild . 
i just ca n't do those , and the lizards and all those things , 
me neither . 
they need to stay outside , far away from me . 
we 're down to a simple dog and cat now , 
and that 's the way it should be , 
have n't had any parakeets for quite a while , 
birds . 
customer of mine has a parrot , 
and sticks in my mind he paid eighteen hundred dollars for a parrot , 
and that was just mind boggling . 
they are so expensive . 
my son was just dying for a bird , 
and i 'm really allergic to them , 
so i try to stay away from them , except i 've gotten real attached to this one , 
are you ? 
and , we went down to canton one time two or three years ago now , 
and he 'd saved up his allowance and picked him out a bird in a bird cage 
i had to literally shake him off to get him in the cage , 
and he has tried to bite me for two years , 
and all of a sudden this bird and i have become wonderful friends . 
he gives me kisses , 
he talks now 
that 's neat . 
and it 's just hysterical . 
i 'm the only one that pays attention to him . 
and i 'm a substitute teacher 
and one of my fifth graders last year came up to me and said , my mom 's making me get rid of the bird , 
we have too many pets . 
i thought , come tell me about it . 
come to my menagerie . 
they knew the sucker when they saw one . 
so now we have two parakeets . 
you heard the question , 
what do you like to do for yourself in car automobile repairs ? 
i 'll tell you , 
i used to do a lot more repairs when cars were easy to work on , than i do now . 
i do the easy stuff now . 
i change oil , 
and then what some people would consider a little more difficult , i 'll change spark plugs 
and i 'll change points and do air filters , that kind of stuff . 
but i ca n't do as much as i used to , 
i used to do a whole lot more , but not any more , 
they 're just too weird to work on now . 
is that the reason you 're not doing it , 
or are you so busy you do n't have time to do it ? 
that 's part of it 
part of it is , like you said , i do n't have time . 
being a female and being alone , i do n't do anything but put gasoline , in my car , and let someone else check the oil even . 
but have you had any major repairs recently ? 
on this car i 've got now 
but i had a van before , 
and it was only two years old , 
and it had transmission go out on it . 
but fortunately that was covered under the warranty . 
you should feel very fortunate . 
i had to have a transmission replaced in an eighty-six automobile 
and i 'll declare , 
maybe i should have just traded the car in . 
sometimes it makes you wonder . 
i have a very comfortable car 
and i have a health problem that i need a large comfortable car . 
so i have a new transmission , 
and i 'm sure that any of them would have charged me almost the same amount . 
it hurts real bad . 
did you take it to a dealership ? 
i took it to an independent out in garland . 
i see . 
these people were recommended by a neighbor 
and that 's the only thing , 
i am not a native of dallas . 
i see . 
so that means i have to depend on trustworthy friends 
it 's fixed , 
it 's running , 
and i pray that i get my thirteen hundred dollars out of it . 
it 's going to run for a while yet . 
i know it . 
it certainly is frightening . 
what work are you in ? 
i work for t i . 
i work in the networking area . 
do you work for t i ? 
i have just retired from the southwest medical center . 
where there are a lot of people down there that could help me with my car , 
but they 're all too busy . 
i have to do it the other way , 
and that 's find someone and pay them to do it . 
so i certainly hope you have a nice new year . 
i 'm planning on it . 
it ca n't be any worse than last year , 
that 's for sure . 
it could be , 
but i do n't much think so . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
we 're starting out a new one , 
so let 's make it a good one . 
i 'm going to try and plan on it . 
i enjoyed the conversation . 
thank you . 
thank you . 
do you live in a home ? 
it 's a house we bought about two and a half years ago now . 
did you ? 
first house . 
we 've lived in ours for about six years . 
we had it built , actually . 
and it 's our first home , too . 
so what do you think of owning a home as opposed to renting somebody else 's ? 
before we built our home we were managing some apartments that we were living in , 
and that was quite an experience . 
i much prefer having my own home and , just the space and more privacy . 
is it a fairly large house ? 
it 's twenty-four fifty square feet . 
that 's pretty good size . 
it 's a two story . 
how about yours ? 
it 's tiny . 
is it small ? 
it 's not much bigger . 
actually we had an two bedroom apartment that was about as big as this house is . 
it 's only eleven hundred square feet . 
do you have children ? 
just one . 
just one . 
but all the rooms are small , 
but it ends up giving us three bedrooms , which we wanted . 
and . use an extra one for an office which is handy . 
i 'd rather have more rooms and less space in each one i guess . 
rather have lots of rooms and lots of space , 
but that ends up costing me . 
how does it compare to the ones in your neighborhood ? . 
it 's pretty typical , 
it 's a very , very middle class neighborhood . 
i 'm sure that virtually everybody in the neighborhood , that 's their first homes 
and lots of kids and stuff , 
and , so it fits well , in the neighborhood . 
it 's certainly not a real upscale neighborhood , 
but on the other hand , it 's clean and kind of suburban little bit more than i want . 
is yours also pretty much in conformance with the neighborhood 
it seems about probably average . 
or is it ? 
but our neighborhood has just a wide variety of , people , 
and there 's older people here , and , people that are our age , 
we 're in our thirties . 
and there 's a lot of kids . 
people across the street have eight . 
eight kids ? 
their home just burned down matter of fact last summer , 
and they 're just rebuilding 
and their house is going to be really big . 
i 'm sure , with eight , 
they 're building a lot bigger . 
he 's not an obstetrician , an orthopedic surgeon . 
it 's quite different than it was before , 
and it 's a lot bigger . 
but ours is , 
it 's a nice home , 
it 's definitely not one of the smaller ones , 
and it 's not the biggest either . 
new ones they tend to be real tiny especially in newer neighborhoods , 
my brother just built a new house . 
he lives in wichita , kansas , 
and the neighborhood actually fought him on it , because the house was going to cost less to build than any other house in the neighborhood . 
that 's because he 's doing a lot of it himself for example , landscaping and lots of the other stuff , 
and his house actually ended up being nicer than lots in the neighborhood , 
but they were pretty touchy on it . 
he was a little surprised . 
that 's interesting you say that , because we have those architectural codes here 
we have part siding on the two story part and then on the back , 
and , there was one side where our chimney was , 
and just the chimney was going to be brick , 
and they wanted us to have more brick , 
so we ended up having to go halfway up 
it does look nicer , 
and we would have like to have had all brick , 
but , of course at that point we could n't afford it , 
but , it 's funny that you 'd say that , because there were homes in here that did n't have any brick at all . 
kind of depends on when they get in . 
ours is the last street that they built on . 
so the houses actually on our street they 're kind of gone a little bit nicer . 
they have , 
it 's the second phase 
and so they 've kind of changed the codes a little bit , 
and so that 's kind of why they stuck us with more brick when there were other homes that did n't have any . 
my sister kind of got in the opposite end of that , because they moved into a neighborhood and bought a real nice stone house down in south austin . 
and , what the builder apparently plans to do , is they do phase one , 
and they kind of give it a very upscale and very tightly controlled codes and stuff , 
and then they come back in , 
we have a sheltie collie , a miniature sheltie . 
do you ? 
it 's about six months old , 
we live in an apartment , 
so , we do n't have a yard , 
so it has to stay inside 
and we 're having a difficult time trying to train it . 
how old is it ? 
it 's about six months . 
you 're in the roughest stages of pet ownership , i think . 
but they 're supposed to be real intelligent dogs , 
. i do n't know if that has anything to do with the intelligence , really , the training bit . 
i 've had dogs through the years . 
right now i 've got two , and three cats , 
and my son and daughter-in-law have kind of a sheltie mix , 
and we watched it this summer for two to three months , 
and it was n't trained quite fully either 
but it was a sweet and an intelligent dog . 
what 's the best method ? 
i do n't know . 
i 'm old fashioned , 
and when i got my dogs , when they did something i hollered at them and threw them outside . 
they say that 's not the way to do it now . 
just , put them outside unless you catch them in the act . 
we 're hardly ever at home , 
so it 's kind of difficult , 
and you do n't want to spank it or scare it , or anything like that , 
you do n't want to do that , 
it gets frustrating when you take it outside 
and then it runs right inside 
does it just want to sniff around ? 
and it does it . ? 
does it just want to sniff around and play when it 's outside ? 
a lot of times , 
and it wo n't 
and it comes inside . 
have you praised it and given it a treat maybe when it does something outside ? 
we 've tried that , 
and there 's certain spots in the house where he likes to go , 
and he chews on plants and all that , 
but that 's natural for a little puppy . ? 
that 's nothing . 
it 'll catch on pretty soon , i 'll bet you . 
i have a sixteen year old , almost sixteen year old golden retriever , 
and she 's gone the other way , 
because she 's so old , she does n't have much control 
so we 're battling with that problem 
that 's sad . 
and she still feels good . 
she ca n't hear worth a darn or see very well , 
but she 's got a great appetite , 
and she knows we 're there , by smell . 
how old is it ? 
she 'll be sixteen in may . 
that 's sad . 
and 
but we ca n't bear to do anything because she 's been our friend for all these years , 
of course not . 
so we 're putting up with all her accidents , 
i could n't . 
two nights ago , she had diarrhea , 
and so that was a bad one . 
but i think we 're buying a carpet shampooer this weekend . 
that is really sad . 
what 's the deal , 
we 're trying to take it on walks now 
and we ca n't because it 's not accustomed to being on a leash 
and so this dog really feels like it 's being killed or something when you try to tug on it to walk it . 
it just goes like a mad dog , 
it just jumps up and down and starts yapping , 
and it 's not even close to even being trained on a leash . 
does it . 
maybe you can get it signed up this spring or summer for some of the dog obedience classes . 
we 've heard some bad things about some of those , 
they sometimes misuse their license or whatever , 
they treat them bad . 
we went to the junior college , richland 
my daughter was living at home then , 
and she took the norwegian elk hound over there 
and , it 's a pretty good class , 
she 's just pretty , 
she 's not smart . 
so , she did n't learn a lot , 
but i think it calmed her down a little bit , 
and she 's used to being around other dogs now . 
how long did it take ? 
i think it was a six week program . 
every , what ? 
i think it was one night a week for six weeks , 
and it was a group class , outside . 
it was fairly reasonable , too . 
sheltie collies are timid , 
unless they get used to something , they 're really nervous 
they 're usually , a high-strung dog are n't they ? 
and if they 're not accustomed to something , they 're really scared . 
donna you said you have three children . 
what kinds of activities do you spend with them ? 
we have an eleven year old , an eight year old , and a three year old 
and my husband he coaches basketball with brian , 
so he spends time doing that with him , planning and practicing outside . 
he 's a real sports kind of person , 
so he plays tennis with the kids . 
we all kind of play tennis as a family , 
except the baby plays in the playground . 
we take turns with her . 
let 's see , 
we have a computer 
and we do a lot of things with the kids on the computer . 
let 's . 
plus we watch a little t v together . 
we really do n't watch as much t v as a lot of people . 
we do n't have h b o . 
we do get the disney channel for the kids . 
my kids have a nintendo which they play , 
and my husband sometimes joins them with that . 
my little girl , jennifer , likes to do crafty things , 
and i 'll take some time and do that with her . 
and , of course , we always read a bedtime story at night , 
and even the older kids sometimes sit down and will join in and listen to a story . 
he gets home from work late or whatever 
and once in a while he 'll read the story to little one , 
but that 's basically my job . 
so do you find it difficult to find time , 
or is it pretty natural ? 
it is . 
it is hard because at the end of your day you want time for yourself 
and that 's kind of cutting into your time . 
and with the kids getting older , now on the weekends they get to the bed at ten which really is late , 
but on school nights , the two older ones get to bed about nine . 
they go upstairs at nine , 
and now , this weekend we 'll have a baby-sitter come 
and my husband and i will go out to dinner and come home probably not too late . 
maybe brian will still be up , 
and spend some time with him . 
but it 's really hard . 
you have to be a very unselfish person to spend a lot of time with your kids , i think . 
do you work during the day ? 
i do n't work . 
last year i had a little part time job in a private high school , tutoring high school students with learning disabilities . 
that was two days a week , 
and even just those two days just seemed like it was a lot . 
i do n't know how , 
i admire , people that can do it all , 
but with three kids and laundry and keeping the house the way i want it kept , it is hard . 
i can imagine . 
and that 's another thing , 
i 'll take one of the kids with me grocery shopping usually on the weekend , 
and that 's kind of a special time for just myself and my little girl or myself and my son , 
and they 'll be my helper , 
and then they 'll get to pick out some of those favorite snacks that they get to pick out 
so , i try to do things like that , 
and then , of course , they have a pretty busy social calendar too . 
you fit it in with all that . 
what do you feel are the current trends in the way families spend time in general in america ? 
i think a lot of people set their kids in front of the t v and h b o and rent movies and , kind of leave them to their own means . 
i think it 's very , very easy to fall into that trap , 
and i 'm not totally innocent of that because , there 's times when you just stay here , watch a tape . 
i think in plano and maybe this area in texas , there 's a lot of community activities that parents could join in with their kids . 
that 's good . 
families are facing a challenge , 
what , 
i 'm a newlywed 
and we 're thinking about having children sometime in the next couple of years 
and it 's very hard , because when you get used to two salaries , it 's very hard to cut back to one . 
i have a friend that 's a nurse 
and she can pick her hours 
that 's a great career . 
i wish i would have gone into nursing . 
because she has such a flexible schedule , 
but it 's very hard to spend time with the children and your husband and do everything at once . 
i think it 's a big , responsibility . 
you just do n't , have children so that you can continue the lifestyle you had when you were single . 
when you have children , you have to say , this is different 
and you do have to give things up . 
i personally feel that it is extremely important to be with your own child at least for the first two years of their lives if you , can possibly swing it 
your family have reunions on a regular basis ? 
probably , once every five years . 
once every five years ? 
you have got a pretty big family . 
and that is the hardest part about getting the stuff together 
and everyone is spread out all over timbuktu . 
and you ? 
we have a pretty big family , 
i am originally from west virginia . 
most of the family is right in what they call tri-state area northern west virginia , eastern ohio , southwestern pennsylvania . 
most everybody is right in that area . 
that makes it a lot easier . a lot more convenient . 
that is why we only do it once every five or ten years . 
because it is always that hard to get everyone together . 
they put one together for our family about once every june . 
it was on my grandmother 's birthday , 
but she is gone now . 
that is kind of what happened with ours . 
that is why we have not had one in a long time . 
so , to make one successful what do you all do . 
do you all just start planning real far ahead of time ? 
do you all start planning real far ahead of time ? 
there is kind of a set pattern to it . 
so the day it happens is ninety-eight percent of the planning usually . 
we get together , at the park , and playground area of the church i was raised in 
and everybody brings lots of food 
and some put up the volleyball net and sit around and tell stories and catch up and play volleyball all day and get really fat . 
eat a lot . 
it is a lot harder for us because like i said we are spread out 
and so we have to plan really probably a year ahead of time so that everyone , can start their vacation time . 
schedule vacation time 
and . 
sunday afternoon 
or sometimes it has been on a saturday afternoon . 
usually , it is sunday afternoon 
and most people do not have more than a couple of hours drive at tops to get there and back . 
where i am calling from is southern mississippi . 
so my wife and i have a bit longer ways to go than most . 
but , you also manage to make them . 
actually , we have only made one of them since we got married about four years ago . one of the family reunions . 
but we are both in school 
so that makes it kind of tough . 
they have been happening just after the summer semester starts . 
you ca n't really get away . 
usually not . 
we managed to get to one . 
that was before i started school 
and she took that summer off . 
now that we have been talking about it i am kind of getting home sick now . 
because it has been over three years since i have been home to see my grandparents . 
my grandfather is the only one that is still around . 
and my grandmother is the one that use to plan this stuff basically . 
she was like the glue , 
i understand . 
where is home for you ? 
originally i was born in missouri . 
but we have relatives scattered out all over louisiana , mississippi here in texas 
but it is harder for everyone to get home . 
maybe this year you can find a more central location . 
but the majority of them are just like how you said in close quarters . 
so it is easier for us few stragglers to go home . 
then the majority of them are still in the missouri area . 
our family right now the most of it , there is only a few stragglers with any distance . 
there is one cousin out in colorado some cousins over in phoenix , 
i got a sister over in , washington state . 
the rest of them are within a couple hours drive . 
how do you all communicate ? to plan it and every thing . 
do you all just call each other up on the phone and say this is the weekend we are going to do it , 
or do you all mail out stuff ? 
that is pretty much it . 
it is going to be such and such weekend 
and you all come . 
that is about it . 
and this is the standard pattern . 
everybody brings their favorite dish 
and , somebody brings the volleyball net , 
somebody brings a whole lot of ice for the watermelon 
i guess probably the last one i went to i met so many people that i had not seen in probably over ten years . 
it was do n't you remember me . 
and i am no . 
am i related to you ? 
i know . 
i married your cousin 's brother 's uncle or something like that . 
do you have them every year ? 
every year . 
i think that is probably why our is probably so interesting is cause we do n't have them that often 
do you have kids ? 
i got three . 
how about yourself ? 
we have two and another one on the way . 
you have got young children then . 
we do , 
we have a six year old . 
he is oldest 
and then our baby will be a year on monday . 
that is great . 
what kind of mix do you have ? 
a boy and a girl ? 
two boys . 
two boys . 
two boys . 
do you know what is on the way yet ? 
i am just about three months , 
and i do n't think we really even want to find out . 
i do not blame you . 
we like surprises . 
so . we will take either . 
we have got two boys and a girl also . 
we have got two boys and a girl . 
are the two boys first ? 
maybe you will get lucky and get a girl this time . 
maybe , 
we kind of like our boys though too , 
our boys , one he is in graduate school at a and m , 
he is in the navy . 
he is a lieutenant in the navy 
and the navy is sending him for his masters in ocean engineering 
and we have got another boy that is , out in maryland . 
he is a wildlife biologist , 
and our girl is thirteen . 
she is in the seventh grade . 
you kind of got a span there , 
what do you do with your seventh grader ? 
she is into a little bit of everything . 
she loves riding horses 
so she goes out riding as much as she can . 
do you have horses ? 
just , she knows people that does , 
she rides english , and does jumping , takes lesson and all that kind of stuff . 
does she ? 
she must really like them . 
she plays the flute in the band , and , the piccolo , 
what they call peace group . 
i do n't know if you have gotten into that with your kids , 
it is a program for advanced kids . 
advanced . 
i have heard about it . 
our little boy is in the first grade 
and i taught school for six years . 
so , i do know about that program 
my wife is involved 
and she kind of heads that up for these kids , 
and last year they , got the state level . 
they did not win that , 
but they got one local and one region , 
and they got a new mix of kids this time . 
so , it keeps them busy . 
it keeps them busy . 
i bet . 
so does she go actually out into a different classroom with , other kids that are involved in this ? 
you probably know a peace group that they are advanced type . that they are special classes for peace classes . 
history is what their peace class is this year . 
she enjoys that kind of stuff and does well with it . 
how neat . 
so . 
challenging , 
always something to do . 
as far as our activities , we are kind of on a different level here . 
you will get to different levels . 
i guarantee it . 
my husband is going to take our six year old to the monster truck show tonight . 
that will be fun . 
both boy things . 
we do n't really ski . 
we have not taken our kids skiing or anything . 
of course , the baby is young , 
got to wait a couple years . 
sledding , that is what you have got to do . 
tobogganing . 
the what ? 
you have got to go tobogganing and sledding with them . 
we have done that . 
in fact , he just goes right out here . 
we have got quite a bit of snow , 
last week we got a lot . 
you are welcome to keep that . 
you would like that , 
i grew up in wisconsin , 
i had plenty of snow , 
and we have lived here about seventeen years , 
but we use to take all of the kids tobogganing and ice skating , and all of that kind of stuff 
it is fun really . 
it is fun . 
as long as you do not have to drive in it . 
i do not like that . 
really , it makes me nervous . 
i had plenty of snow to last me forever . 
i do n't care if i ever see any , 
i do n't care if i ever see it , 
but keep it off of here . 
i do n't mind it , 
but the winter gets long . 
i get ready , that , come about this time of year i am kind of ready for it to start getting spring , 
and , it is too early yet . 
you have got five months before you will see that . 
we do , 
we do . 
we have had a few early springs though in the last few years . 
they have not been too bad . 
come about march , it gets a lot nicer . 
do you watch much t v 
i do n't watch much t v . 
usually the reason i will turn it on is to hear the news . 
the news , 
but i do n't think of that every day , even . 
i get them from everywhere . 
i guess i watch t v if i have n't read the paper that day . 
we do n't get a paper 
i teach a college class 
the library has a paper . 
and so i often drop in on a break and read it . 
and i keep the radio on quite a bit when i 'm home . 
and then i figure if there 's big news , i 'll hear it from my husband when he gets home or , someone else . 
i get it from all over . 
i watch the news every day , 
we get the newspaper , and magazines , anything . 
i read a lot , 
i 'm really up on current affairs . 
i get the news and everything . 
what 's your favorite news , 
do you get a news magazine 
i 'm not getting any news magazines 
are you satisfied with the quality of coverage ? 
i do n't know . 
is there anything missing ? 
it 's kind of hard to know . 
and i do n't know , 
what are we supposed to compare it to the quality , 
whatever they tell you , 
i guess i 'm satisfied . 
they 're supposedly covering everything that happens , 
you know . 
i 've heard through the grapevine sometimes that there 's been an earthquake or sliding or something , 
i do n't ever hear it in the news here . 
it 's so slight , 
the tremors are so slight that they do n't even bother putting it in the paper . 
but most of the times i find that even if they do have tremors out there there 'll be a small article in the paper about it . 
i sometimes feel like the dallas paper and the dallas news the top headlines are always a murder . 
. that 's what sells papers . 
that 's because there 's a high crime rate . 
that 's been like that since the first newspaper . 
i 'm sure . 
but i do n't know . 
i guess i 'm satisfied , 
what basis of comparison do we have really ? 
that 's true . 
we certainly get enough coverage . 
we can get news , 
there 's even the c n n channel where we can get world news twenty-four hours a day . 
sometimes you do n't even want to be bothered with the news because it 's all so bad . 
it 's all so negative . 
so . . 
we have to keep talking , i guess . 
i guess we can end . 
is it really ? 
have you always gone until the recording ? 
i guess we 're not supposed to . 
i do n't know , 
i guess we 're supposed to wait 
or i do n't know . 
was it last week , we were supposed to talk about gardening 
and it was really funny , 
i mixed it , made the call , 
and it happened to be my friend who lives a few blocks away . 
we were laughing , i mean . 
but we do n't really do any gardening , 
so that took a minute 
and then we just talked about whatever . 
interesting . 
some topics , 
there really is n't much to say after you tell the person where they find their sources of information from 
and then if they 're satisfied , 
and that 's about it , really . 
it 's hard to talk for five minutes on this . 
it seems like some things are sensationalized 
you 'll hear one report 
what kind of hobbies do you have lori ? 
i guess , i like to play golf . 
and i also like to plant flowers and do some gardening and do arts and crafts . 
where do you play golf in this area ? 
we live pretty close , to the mesquite golf course . 
we will play either out there or at firewheel . 
that is usually where we play , 
but i have played different courses in the dallas area . 
do you ride 
or do you pull a cart when you play golf ? 
both . 
not at the same time . 
i was going to say , that could be difficult . 
sometimes we ride 
and sometimes we , pull , 
we like , to a lot of the times just walk for the exercise . 
i find that when i ride in a cart , i play better 
and i think it is cause i do n't get as tired . 
i think that might be true . 
i do n't like pulling a cart on firewell golf course because they want you to pull the cart on the path . 
i know , 
and that makes me so mad . 
it is not going to do that much damage to the course , 
but apparently they think differently . 
that is the reason , i do n't play over there . 
i like the course , 
but i do n't play over there because , they do n't allow you to pull a cart . 
and , i do n't think a cart damages the turf . 
the reason why we play over there is because , since we are a garland resident , they gave us a special deal where you can get ten rounds of golf for a hundred dollars , 
a hundred dollars 
cause it is half price what the normal green fees are . 
so that is why we play over there 
cause we have got our card . 
i guess i could use a card too . 
i live very close to the firewheel golf course . 
do you ? 
so you live in garland then . 
i live in northwest garland . 
right up there near the golf course . 
we are in south garland , 
but next time you go check into it , 
it is just like a bus card 
and they just punch it , 
it has got one through ten on it 
and every time you go they just punch it for you . 
in the last two years , i have not played very much golf because i am involved in boy scouts . 
so i have children boy scout age . 
you must have a son . 
i have two boys that are boy scout age , 
and so i am very active in boy scouts 
so i would have to say that camping and hiking and canoeing and boy scouts is my hobby . 
that sounds like fun too . 
but my golf clubs will probably rust before i get to use them again 
because my boys are still right at the beginning age 
and it is probably going to be six to eight years before they go to college . 
you need to teach them how to play and take them out on the course with you . 
that 's right . 
lessons are expensive though . 
you can teach them . 
they would probably never make it then 
i only took lessons for golf when i was in college . 
as a course for p e so i could graduate . 
but that is the only time i think i have ever really taken golf lessons 
and that was kind of a group scenario and not individual . 
i took one lesson one other time . 
besides that i just try to make the club hit the ball . 
i know what you mean . 
i do n't want to play strike out . 
but i have fun doing it , 
i have some good shots and some bad shots . 
it is just nice to get outdoors and do something . 
so you said you work in the gardens too . 
do you have special flowers ? 
flower gardens . 
matter of fact this past weekend i just got finished planting a bunch of tulips and daffodil bulbs . 
so , those ought to be coming up around spring time . 
my wife had just put in a bunch of pansies . 
she put them in two months ago cause they are winter plants . 
we thought even with all the cold weather we have had they have been blooming just fine . 
they do great . 
i put mine in probably in november . 
that is when she did , i think . 
i think it was november 
and i do n't do anything to mine , water them or anything . 
they do really good 
and last year or the year before , i had some out 
and it froze 
and the pansies looked terrible , 
but they came back later . 
i did n't do anything to them 
so they are good to plant in the winter time . 
they last for a long time then . 
so , you can put them out in the spring too , 
but once it starts getting real hot then it just kills them cause they ca n't stand the hot weather . 
do they survive longer if you plant them in the winter time ? 
will they make it through the summer sun ? 
they wo n't make it through the summer because it gets too hot , 
but they make it through probably winter and spring . 
i have got some of those too , 
cause i love flowers . 
that is good . 
and i try to do some arts and crafts 
so you enjoy camping ? 
like you , i have n't done any in quite some time except for what i call living now which is very close to camping . 
is it ? 
i camped in the boy scouts 
and my dad and i went out sometimes 
but even my first eight or nine years of working , i camped almost all of the time because i was in construction . 
and it is cheaper to pitch a tent and cook your meals out by the fire than it is to rent an apartment add to stress . 
when you have to have it , you have got to have it . 
so , my buddy and i , we just camped . 
and we figured , what the hell , 
we did it when we were kids 
and we loved it . 
of course , we did n't really rough it that much . 
he is a couple years older than me 
and he graduated and went off to college 
and during the summer we would camp out at the lake . 
but it was n't very much like camping because we had a refrigerator and a stove . 
i had a little boat house and floated it out on lake grapevine . 
and it was fantastic . 
we would get up in the morning , go skiing , 
that substituted for a shower 
and then we would go to work and come back to the boat house at night 
and in the afternoon it is still four o'clock . 
you have got four hours of day light , good skiing left . 
and it was great . 
but now all my life is more like camping than not camping really . 
do you have electricity out there . 
you 've got a phone obviously . 
actually as a matter of fact , they just ran the phone three years ago . 
we did n't have a phone . 
they did n't have phone lines . 
you just could n't get phones . 
and we are third from the end on the electric string . 
so , we are at the end of the mail route . 
like i said , we are probably as far as you can get from the seven eleven and still be in texas . 
i guess so . 
but right now what we did , my wife and i , is we got a mobile home . one of these twelve by forty-eight 's that got repoed , and swapped them a cadillac for it and put it out here on the land figuring i would build a house some day . 
i 'm in construction 
and i just had this place to shower up while i was out here putting up fence and building a driveway and drilling a well and all that stuff you have to do before you can even put a house in . 
and i came home from work one friday afternoon 
and our truck was back . 
everything we had was in boxes 
and my wife said we 're moving . 
and i said where . 
and she said out to the trailer . 
and i said , oh . 
she said yep 
and i said okay . 
so , we have been roughing it out here for about three years , 
but it is not bad . 
we have color t v , microwave 
it is not horrible , 
but it 's a lot like camping . 
i grew up in california , in central california right in the valley . 
so it is a forty-five minute drive to the mountains 
so my dad loved fishing and camping . 
so we would go up . 
first , we went up with a toyota pick up truck and laid out our sleeping bags under the stars and cooked our hot dogs by the fire or whatever . 
but then later my mom and dad got a camper 
so we have kind of moved up . 
became civilized . 
a little bit in the world . 
my mom goes camping . 
she takes her motor home . 
she 's got one of these huge winnebago 's with a refrigerator and air-conditioning , color t v , microwave oven . 
roughing it for me is going to the holiday inn and getting a shower . 
but she has a lot of fun . 
she goes to dog shows . 
she shows dogs 
and you can sneak a dog into a motel 
but you ca n't sneak ten dogs into a motel . 
so , she takes the motor home . 
and she made a deal with my dad that she would take all the dogs with her when she went dog showing . 
if he would buy her a motor home . 
so he did . 
but as far as camping , my wife and i have plans to not really camp per se , but to drive up the highway one there in california as soon as we get this house finished . 
that will be pretty . 
i am going to need a vacation . 
that 's really pretty out there . 
there are a lot of nice places , 
have you painted something lately ? 
i have . 
that room i showed you . 
and then since then we have painted the bedroom . 
another bedroom . 
i showed you that one too did n't i ? 
the brown one . 
the one that looks like a fudgesicle . 
i painted the outside of my house and one bathroom . 
but i have that problem with the ceiling the blown , ceiling where you get around the edge . 
that is hard . 
i asked janice , or somebody recently how you do that when you paint the ceilings where you have got that textured stuff , that they have special rollers that are real soft and furry that you paint that with . 
how do you get the edge though ? 
how do you get the edge ? 
the straight edge ? 
you just have to be real careful . 
i see . 
we use a two inch brush on a slant 
and that mostly does it even though you still make mistakes . 
are you going to paint the outside of your house too ? 
i think i am going to do it this spring actually . 
there are six houses . 
the people that own the house they pay for anything like that , that we do . as far as the materials . 
nice . 
there are three houses on this street the same color of yellow out of six houses . 
so , i am thinking i am going to change it to something , 
the brick is multi color . mostly earth tones . 
i think i am going to put something like a brown on it , on the outside . and maybe , a little deeper brown in the entry way or something so it will stand out a little . 
that will be nice . 
what color did you paint , 
or two tone . . 
there are some columns that could be painted a different color too . 
what color did you paint your house ? 
white . 
but , i have a problem . 
i ca n't get up high 
and we ca n't paint the chimney . 
you have got to get one of those ladders . 
we have one of those ladders . 
we are just not willing to get up that high . 
a friend of mine that lives out in your neighborhood , he has done his house 
i was out there last week 
and he has finished everything except the chimney . 
we did too . 
we did it in the fall 
and it 's just too high . 
it is really scary , 
other than doing our own work i prefer it to a professional . 
our house in new mexico , it was stucco , 
but we had all this trim to paint , and lots of it . 
and we did basically seventy-five percent of the house 
and then i was afraid to do the eaves way up high and stuff . 
so , i hired this man to come in and do it . a young kid . 
what do you call those things ? 
the blowers ? 
those where you built a rafter thing . 
i know what you are talking about . 
scaffold . 
scaffold . 
that 's it . 
he came and did it that way 
and i think he charged me a hundred dollars to finish up . 
and literally i would n't have done it with the scaffolds because all the places that i had left for him were above huge humongous cactus 
and if he fell , he was dead 
and he knew that . 
so that was worth it getting a professional for that . 
plus , he cleaned up my mess . 
i think that is what we might have to do with this chimney , 
but other than that , it was pretty easy doing it ourself and caulking it and everything ourself . 
it was n't too bad . 
how much did it cost you for the paint for the outside ? 
maybe a hundred and fifty . 
since , it is a one story , 
but we did two heavy coats over it . 
but then that way you are assured you did a good job than you are if you hire someone to do it . 
but , that friend of mine that painted his house out there in your neighborhood he went to buy his paint 
and yet he bought seventeen gallons . 
and , anyway , when he checked out they only charged him for one gallon of paint . 
thirteen bucks or something . 
and he had already carried a ladder outside and told her that 
and she wrung all that stuff up and made a mistake on the price of the paint 
so she had to start all over again 
and when he got outside , he noticed his receipt was thirteen ninety-nine or something . 
so that was really worth it . painting his own house . 
it was over two hundred dollars worth of free stuff . 
he really saved in that way . 
but 
i think we are going to do another bathroom , 
but i think i will probably just do it , in a roller . 
. rollers are so messy . 
we never . 
i know . 
but it 's the textured wall . 
are you there ? 
tell me your favorite team . 
baseball ? 
i 've kind of , been intrigued with the rangers more so with their management than anything else . 
i do n't follow baseball that closely , 
but since i live here so close to arlington that 's the team that i 've been kind of following . 
where do you think they 're headed , 
so we 'll have to talk about the future with the rangers . 
what are your thinkings on what they can do , what they 'll be able to do ? 
that , he was willing to come down a little bit if the rangers will go up a little bit . 
and the rangers go up a little bit , 
they 're the ones that probably are paying the highest . 
they are . 
and i think this is absolutely ridiculous . 
i 'm not real sure that they should pay him that much money . 
because he 's got one more year before he turns into a free agent . 
that 's right . 
and then who knows , 
if he produces next year , they may have to end up paying him anyway , 
but if he does n't , then his market value will go down 
and they can pick him up for a lot less than they would if they paid him the six million dollars a year this year . 
that was a great deal for him . 
i 'm sure it was . 
it was a great deal for him 
and , he just signed on , 
i think it was a five year deal with pittsburgh . 
pittsburgh . 
so he 's real happy there . 
as far as the rangers are concerned , i think they definitely need some pitching . 
what do you think of howse , who is the coach for the pitchers ? 
the pitching coach ? 
i was just looking at the news tonight , 
and they showed a black guy that was helping out his assistant . 
his assistant . 
and i think that 's a great addition . 
he seemed to know what he was doing 
i really wish they could see fit to get rid of howse . 
you do n't like howse ? 
i really do n't . 
and i 'm not going to stand up on my , soapbox and say that , 
but i 'm , not fond of howse 
and i 'm not fond of grieves . 
tom grieve ? 
i 'm not sure that they 're ready to get rid of , tom grieve yet , 
but howse might be a different situation , 
and i think you 're probably right , that they need some changes in pitching coach , maybe 
i 'm just gullible enough that i think bobby valentine is doing all right 
you do ? 
that 's contrary to popular belief . 
i know , 
i know so , 
but i would like so much for these rangers to get their act together and give nolan ryan the support he needs . 
i know . 
it 's too bad that it has to be a forty-two year old guy to lead the rangers . 
i understand . 
they need to have some young guys that can take the lead 
i have so many mixed emotions about all this . 
what kind of vacations do you like to take ? mumblex . 
we 've been fortunate enough to take a couple of trips over to europe 
so , i guess those are the types i like . 
we 've really enjoyed them . 
where have you gone there ? 
we 've gone to germany , switzerland , austria , ireland and england . 
we 've been to germany twice . 
but i guess my favorite is probably switzerland and ireland . 
i 've been over there too . 
where have you been ? 
let 's see , 
mostly germany and france . 
i lived in france for a year and a half 
how neat . 
but , once when i had a chance in france to go on vacation instead of travelling around france i went to germany 
because i 've got relatives there 
and i just like it there . 
that 's neat . 
but , austria , i found really pretty and switzerland , 
and i lived in the alps in france 
so anything in the mountains over there i just love . 
how neat . 
then i finally made it to england , too on my way home , 
i lived in africa , actually , 
you lived in africa ? 
and unless you fly from nairobi , you have to fly through , europe on your way home . 
so , i went to england , 
and i really liked it there too . 
it 's so expensive over there . 
i know , 
it 's true . 
that 's the one thing . 
it really is . 
i love to go over there , 
but it 's so darn expensive to go over . 
actually now you can get some really good deals flying over , 
once you 're there you still have to spend money . unless you know people . 
i know , 
then you can stay with them , 
and . 
that helps a lot . 
there 's a lot of places in the states that we have n't even gone . 
i 'd like to go to hawaii some time , 
we 've at least gone to the grand canyon and niagara falls . 
feel like we 've accomplished a little bit here . 
i have n't . 
most of my vacationing in the u s has been on the west coast 
or this summer i went to colorado 
and i 'd love to go to the east coast , during the fall . 
i 've always wanted to go there . 
i 've seen pictures , 
and it looks gorgeous . 
we made a trip up the east coast . 
it was in the summer 
and it really is pretty . 
both coasts are really pretty 
but i love the carolinas . 
it 's just gorgeous over there . 
i have n't been anywhere on the east coast . 
i think tennessee has been the furthest east i 've been . 
you 'll just have to plan a vacation some time and go over there . 
i guess so . 
but there 's a lot to see here 
but i just love going over to europe because their way of life is just so different than ours . 
we 're so fast paced here , 
and over there every time we 'd go and eat dinner or lunch or whatever we 'd always have to ask for the check 
they 're so leisurely over there 
and it 's kind of nice to have that . 
would you go over and spend a lot of time in one place , or travel to whole bunch of different places in one week ? 
usually a bunch of different places . 
probably because you want to see everything . 
see as much as you can while you 're there . 
i know . 
how did you like africa ? 
i liked it . 
i was working in cameroon , africa 
and it 's not a place for tourists , 
they 're not used to having tourists there , 
you 're kind of roughing it . 
but i liked it , 
i liked it . 
the people there are just very friendly 
what type of work ? 
i was working with an organization that does bible translation . 
so i was doing linguistic work actually , travelling around , finding out about languages , and what they call survey work . 
find out where the languages are . 
so , i travelled a lot around the country and met a lot of people . 
that 's neat . 
i enjoyed it . 
i 've talked to people who have been to africa , 
but i 've always thought it would be neat to go on a safari over there . 
my cousin came over while i was there , 
and she came to cameroon 
and then she went over to nairobi and took a safari around close to nairobi in kenya . 
how neat . 
so , she 'd always dreamed of doing that too . 
that 's great . 
so . . 
so is there any place you would try to talk me into going to ? 
it sounds like we 've been to some of the same places . 
it does . 
did you hear our topic ? 
it 's in regards to discussing homes . 
homes , 
are you settled in a place ? 
i 'm settled in a place . 
i 've been in it for actually thirteen years , since nineteen seventy-eight 
and it 's in richardson , texas , which is north dallas . 
and we 've lived in two houses in richardson . 
we moved here in seventy-four and changed locations in seventy-eight . 
how about yourself ? 
we left here in seventy-six . 
we were here for a few years , 
then we have come back just this summer . 
right now we 're looking for housing somewhere down in the duncanville and cedar hill area . 
are you familiar with that ? 
it 's a nice area . 
it is . 
the kids are in school here in duncanville . 
we 're in a temporary place right now 
so they 've enjoyed the school , 
so we 're kind of trying to stay here 
are you finding it tough trying to find what you want 
the problem we got is that we 've got five children 
and so we really want four or five bedroom house 
and everybody says how many houses are on the market and all that kind of thing 
so we look at the paper , 
we talk to our realtor 
and you can cut the listings in about a third when you go from three to four bedrooms or five . 
are you looking 
or you settled , 
we 're settled 
i 'm probably older than you , 
i 'm fifty-two , 
but anyway , my youngest is getting married this year graduating college , 
so i can board up their rooms , and look forward to retirement maybe . 
that empty nest syndrome is going to set in , i guess . 
so , we 're looking forward to retiring in about three years and maybe relocating to florida or somewhere . closer to our families . 
are you from florida originally ? 
from west virginia 
but my wife 's parents are from the new york , new jersey area 
but everyone has . 
seems like a nice place to go . 
we 've got five 
and the oldest is ninth grade 
and the youngest is second grade 
and i think they 're going to be with us forever . 
i do n't know if that 's true , 
we 're not anywhere near looking to cut down in size . 
i understand . 
you need very minimum four and probably five . 
in fact , six would be real good . 
my wife and i can share a bedroom . 
it 's tough to find a five and six bedroom house , is n't it ? 
i do n't think it 's possible unless you multimillionaire , something like that . 
i know . 
seems like you get in that category , you 're in the three hundred thousand dollar homes or whatever 
and that 's an awful lot . 
it is , 
actually , if we find something for less than a hundred and twenty thousand , we 'll be doing all right . 
but i think the thing 's out there , 
it 's just a matter of finding the right place , 
just , matter of looking , 
lot of people in your situation will buy a four bedroom house and convert maybe the garage or something or do something . 
i had a young lady used to work for me at my office from the high school 
and there were seven kids in her family . 
and they converted the dining room and , did this and that , 
but they always seemed to get along fine . 
i think once we get into a place , it will be just fine , 
but until then , it 's , a little stressful just looking all the time and that sort of thing . 
i know 
and there 's nothing harder than that . 
i always just sort of assign my wife that chore , 
then i would let her narrow it down to three or four , 
then i 'd go look because women seem to like to look a lot more than men do . 
maybe that 's the case . 
at least she 's got more opinions , 
seems like there 's more constraints more things that she thinks about openness the size of the kitchen and all this kind of stuff that i would probably gloss over and , maybe even ignore . 
i understand that . 
. what kind of business are you in ? 
i 'm in the sporting goods business . 
i 'm a manufacturer 's rep . 
i represent fourteen different hunting and shooting type companies . 
who are you with ? 
we 're with an organization called wycliff bible translators . 
it 's a missions organization and doing translation , linguistics , that sort of thing . 
it 's got an office down here near duncanville 
and we just moved down to be on staff down here 
you say you lived in the denver area before ? 
how did that compare with this area as far as housing prices ? 
we were really surprised to find that they 're higher here . , 
no kidding . 
when we moved from louisiana to denver , it was astounding to find that prices were almost two or three times as high as we 'd expected . 
and then to come down here , we thought things would be lower , 
and they 're not . 
i spent four years as a university professor . 
i spent three years , 
i 'm teaching in public schools and elementary school . 
do you really ? 
that 's great . 
i taught in utah , 
and did you teach in california ? 
no kidding . 
i did . 
i did , 
you sound pretty young for a university professor . 
i was pretty young . 
i had never intended to do it 
and i was given the opportunity after i 'd started a management consulting firm to teach in , one of the business schools in the california state university system . 
at any rate the topic is fascinating because one of the things i 've done for the past few years is research the problem from the point of view of what appears to be working best and how you can explain it theoretically . 
you may be familiar with cooperative learning . 
you can tell me a little bit more about it because i do n't think we did that in utah . 
the cooperative learning is a technique that was tried initially to integrate the public schools . 
and what it involves , basically , is the use of peer groups 
and the teacher becomes a sort of a resource person to the learning cooperatives , . 
and there are some fairly sophisticated approaches that are used in the high schools with point systems and things like that so that people gain a competence with respect to the material . 
i think that the combination of technology and techniques like that together with marketplace forces will bring about a revolution in the way we learn . 
i think there is a direct threat to vested interest in the public school system that will stand in the way of that progress being a little faster . 
school systems are , in too many states , dominated by administrators 
and both teachers and parents complain about the cost and ineffectiveness that results . 
my feeling is that the problem is , significant . there are plenty of good people available to offer people educational experience , but that we just have to reallocate and reorganize the resources to do it 
and i think certain techniques and technologies will influence all of that as well as research of the sort that people like me do looking at theories of behavior and how they can be used to improve performance , particularly accelerate the pace of learning . 
and , my feeling is that those kinds of things will solve the problem eventually . 
i do n't know what form it will ultimately take . 
but , i think that the future is pretty bright because people recognize that we 're paying an enormous price for inferior quality when the people involved really are n't inferior , 
i see what year saying , 
i totally agree . 
i do n't think it 's a matter of , talented people to do it , both as , quote , unquote students and as teachers , 
you must see kids with real significant problems in some cases . 
i do n't know how hard is it in the public school system in iowa city ? 
is it , deteriorated a lot . 
are they pretty happy with it , 
i have n't taught in iowa , 
but i 've taught in utah , 
and people there were saying that the way that the schools were going , a lot of people were going away and going to private schools , or else going to , where they taught their kids at home . or anything but the public schools and the ones that did have the kids , 
even in utah . 
maybe it was the area i was in , 
utah 's a place where you would n't think that problem would be very severe . 
but a lot of schools had a lot of transient families and a lot of families who were on the poorer side 
so , you saw a fair number of troubled kids . 
you said , how the schools are doing more things for the kids than they were thirty years ago . 
the school i was teaching at , the year i left , they were considering providing hot breakfast for the kids . 
as well as hot lunch 
i suppose we both have credit cards . 
they seem to be a part of life . 
how do you use them ? 
i do use them . 
i have a few favorites that i use more than others 
and i try to keep my balances fairly reasonable . 
i could probably pay them off any month if i wanted to . 
but occasionally they can get out of hand and get higher when you start using more than a few 
and they all can build up . 
i think they 're handy . 
i do n't carry a lot of cash with me 
and i hate writing checks when you go shopping . 
do you use credit cards ? 
i use a few . 
i watched my grandmother go into debt on them 
grandmother 
so my mother learned from that 
and i guess she taught me to be very , very careful with them . 
so basically i just keep them , 
i use them so that i build up a credit rating . 
i 've just been married seven months , 
but he has the same habit 
and we just keep a few of the major ones , and then use them once in a while for something , 
that 's good . 
but we always pay it off right that month so that we do n't pay any service charge . 
that 's wonderful . 
so that way we keep out of debt 
and we keep on top of what we 're spending . 
the interest rates in credit cards is so high now compared to what your savings is bringing . 
it 's really ridiculous to let them keep building . 
that 's what i feel . 
but i know some people can get , carried away with them and let them get out of hand . 
it 's really easy , just to forget that you charged that or charged that . 
i try to keep all my receipts and keep them in someplace where i know that the bill 's going to come , 
but sometimes i forget 
and so a bill will come in 
and i 'll think , i did n't know it was going to be that high . 
but so far , we 've been able to pay it off every time 
that 's good . 
right now i 'm kind of looking for a visa that has a lower interest rate . 
it seems that some of them have gotten higher 
and i saw on t v , they had a program on credit cards 
i do n't know if it was tennessee or arkansas or some other state had a visa card that was the lowest one in the country . 
and i did n't write it down at the time 
and then i went and looked to see what my visa was 
and i think it 's eighteen percent or something 
so , think i want to find something that has a lower rate . 
have you ever used discover card ? 
i have n't . 
i 'm not even sure what their interest rate is since i pay it off 
is that the one from sears ? 
i think sears originally put it out , 
but it 's pretty well taken all over the u s now . 
i have n't found many places that do n't take discover . 
and there 's no annual service fee , which is good . 
and then they also give you cash back at the end of the year . 
for the amount that i charge , i get two dollars back or something 
but if you use credit cards a lot you probably get more back . 
they give you money back for using your credit card . 
basically . 
that 's it . 
i did n't know that . 
and i think the service charge is pretty low , too , 
but , i 'm not sure . 
sears was one of the few department stores that never would take any other credit cards . 
i worked at sears for over ten years 
and it was only a sears card that they would take until i guess they decided to join the club and come up with another credit card that was accepted , 
so now they 'll take the discover , 
but i still do n't know if sears will take visa or mastercard . 
but i never did apply for a discover card . 
i can do enough damage with those two . 
i think it 's best to keep the number down that you have . 
i 've got some that i have n't even used at all past few years 
i probably would n't be able to use them . 
but i do like my dillard 's , 
i have to admit that 's one of my favorite places to shop . 
and i do use dillard 's probably more than any of the other department stores . 
do you have anything else to say ? 
not too much more about credit cards . 
i do n't think i do either 
it was good talking to you . 
good talking to you beth . 
good luck . 
have a good evening . 
you , too . 
as far as i 'm concerned it 's probably apt that your call 's at this time because we just got through watching reasonable doubts . which had a capital case in it . 
my own feelings about capital punishment is i think it should be mandatory upon a third conviction felony . 
i do , too . 
mandatory summary execution , on the steps , that day . 
i think if it 's a convicted , felon on parole and he goes out and commits another crime or kills somebody , i feel the same way , 
i think that person is beyond rehabilitation 
and he should be taken out . 
i also firmly believe that no one is beyond reclamation . 
but , i do know that almost all people usually die before that point . 
they just get too old . 
as far as capital punishment , on it 's own merits , i have the trouble with the way it 's applied . 
i think it should be applied , on a little bit more fair manner . 
and i 've said this very often 
and i believe it to be a very true axiom , 
so i would rather be white , rich and guilty than black and innocent . because if you 're black and you kill a white guy , you 're going to fry . 
they will kill you . 
and if you 're black and you kill a black guy it 's two hundred hours of community service . 
you do n't hear too much of those cases . 
it 's a social disease that we have called one upsmanship . 
we 're the majority , 
so we can do whatever the hell we want to do . 
that 's right . 
and you 're the minority 
and you 're stuck with it . 
but we had this in the vietnam war , 
population of blacks among military people in vietnam was about eighty percent . 
but the population of blacks in the military was about twenty-two percent . 
the handwriting 's on the wall there , is n't it ? 
it sure is . 
but that 's another issue altogether . 
as far as capital punishment , i think that ten years on death row is cruel and unusual punishment . 
i think the guy should have ninety days 
the only thing i do n't understand , i guess i do n't understand our judicial system as it is right now 
because if somebody has been convicted and has been sentenced to be put to death , how is it that they can appeal and appeal and appeal and get stays of execution ? 
that goes back to when america was a colony of england . 
in england , you went to court , 
you were assumed guilty until proven innocent 
and once they found you guilty judge said , he 's guilty , 
kill him . 
there were some people that had a problem with that . because they found out later on that a guy will lie rather than get killed . 
and he 'll say that guy did it not me . 
or he 'll have somebody lie for him . 
people lie , 
it 's a strange thing , 
but they do that , 
and to prevent that kind of misuse of power , they wrote into the constitution a protection against judicial mishap . 
and the judicial mishap in this event would be , you got the wrong guy . 
look at that guy at e systems . 
they convicted him of a robbery that he could not physically have been able to commit . 
he was too far away when it happened . 
they were n't dope dealers , 
they were n't drug fiends , 
they were employees of an establishment that had a very high level of security sense , too . 
and these were really responsible people . 
and they convicted this guy because somebody says , he looks like the right guy . 
they all look the same to me . 
big lips , flat nose , 
that was him . 
did you watch the bulls this morning ? 
you know what , 
i watched a little bit of the bulls game 
and i had to leave . 
in fact i think the bulls were ahead when i left . 
who won the game ? 
they won in a squeaker . 
they won by two points . 
is that right ? 
they were behind as they headed into each quarter 
and then they came back in the second half 
and at the end , i think they looked like they were closing it out 
and then detroit kept coming back 
and isaiah missed a three point attempt , at the end 
and i think the bulls won by two . 
do n't they have the best record now ? 
i think they do , as a matter of fact . 
one of the commentators said that they expected that the bulls would set an n b a record for seventy wins in a season . 
they looked real good 
they do , 
michael jordan really helped them out . 
they do n't have to rely on him to score thirty or forty points at every game 
they 're balancing their attack 
and i think they look like they 'll repeat , although here in the bay area people are real impressed with what don nelson 's done with the warriors . 
i know , 
i saw just a little bit of the highlights of the warriors , dallas game . 
i saw the second half of the game last night 
and they were impressive . 
they look good . 
that was a good move for the warriors to trade for him . 
they traded away mitch richmond , 
or is it tim hardaway . 
though three were three of the best in the n b a , 
and , they made a heck of a threesome 
and they traded either richmond or hardaway to sacramento for billy owens 
good move . 
he 's really worked out well . 
the warriors have got a team , 
and i think that will be real interesting to see what they can do . 
they 're ahead , 
and the lakers are down in fourth position in the west 
and i do n't know , 
in the east , i do n't know , 
is it boston in first place ? 
i think boston 's in first . 
i have n't kept up with any of the other teams . 
i 'm so depressed with the dallas mavericks . 
they 've had a hard time . 
they said they 've lost a lot of squeakers . 
but just this whole year has been just disastrous for them 
and i think they 're going for an all time record of how many losses in a row they can , pull out . 
it 's unbelievable . 
how do people in texas deal with dallas , houston and san antonio . 
do you , for example , like san antonio in dallas ? 
actually , the dallas area here pulls for dallas . 
san antonio pulls for san antonio , 
and houston pulls for the rockets . 
so there is n't much crossover , 
not a whole lot , 
you find them to be pretty loyal with the local teams . 
i guess it 's kind of like there in the bay area you do n't find a whole lot of sacramento fans . 
it 's true , 
because san antonio is n't that close to you , are they ? 
really is n't , 
it 's about the same distance from here to san antonio as it is from there to sacramento . 
is it ? 
so it 's not something you 'd drive , 
i was thinking maybe david robinson made a bit of a difference with kids and that sort of thing . 
he does a lot of local stuff there in san antonio 
and they have got a great club . 
they 've done a good job . 
of course , drafting a franchise like him certainly , 
that always makes a big difference . 
i think that 's the way it works now in basketball . 
magic was a franchise for the lakers and bird for the , celtics 
and i used to think that one player really does n't make a club , 
but it really does . 
you get somebody like magic 
and you can see the decline in that team . 
once he left it 's not the same team . 
there 's not the leadership there that they used to rely on him for . 
i think you 're right 
and i think isaiah thomas would fit in detroit 
and i think those things do make a difference 
and there are marquee players . 
and i think jordan and the bulls have to be considered the likely favorites . 
i do n't know who would meet them in the west . 
i do n't know how good portland will turn out to be by the end of the year . 
who won that portland game ? 
i watched only a few minutes of it 
and i was n't paying attention . 
and so i do n't know , 
but phoenix and portland have both been very good clubs 
michael , what do you think about funding for aids research ? 
that 's something i 've thought a lot about . 
i work in a hospital . 
and i 've worked in the hospital for fifteen years 
and i 've taken care of a few aids patients . 
when they asked us did we want to keep it the same or spend more , spend less i think right now what they 're spending is adequate . for my personal opinion . because i think it 's something that 's going to take them a while to come up with a vaccine for . 
i do n't think it 's going to be that easy to come up with 
or i think they already would have by now . 
so i do n't know if spending a lot more money would really make any difference right now . 
i think they 're doing as much research as they can possibly do . 
and what about you ? 
i guess i 'm not too aware of how much they 're spending right now . 
i 'm not either . 
i 'm definitely not aware of how much . 
that 's something i 've never really kept up with at all . 
i 'm not sure , 
go ahead . 
i know i 've always thought more about the disease rather than the research , 
you know what i mean ? 
and that sort of thing . 
if we were talking about the money i 'd just have to say what they 're spending is probably enough , simply because i do n't know that much about it . 
i can see that research is needed 
definitely . 
i think so , 
i think so . 
it 's becoming a major problem . 
that 's true . 
that 's true because it 's such an easily preventable disease . 
and i feel like just saying , safe sex is not the answer . 
it 's , abstinence in certain cases 
it 's definitely not . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
myself i 'm about to , get a divorce 
and course , i 'm not all ready to just run out there and start dating everybody i can or anything . 
but , it 's sort of scary to find yourself single again . 
and because you never know what 's going to happen . 
you do n't know who you 're going to come across . 
course , i 'm not going to want to go and have sex with everybody i see . 
but it 's something you got to think about these days . 
a single person , 
and it certainly changed my attitude about that in a hurry . 
i think for a lot of people it has . 
certainly . 
but i know that in some of these larger cities they 're passing out free syringes and all of that sort of thing so that the drug addicts wo n't be getting dirty needles and everything . 
drug addicts . 
and i do n't know , 
i do n't think that 's a bad idea . 
i know it sort of does n't address the problem of drug addiction . 
it just sort of keeps that going . 
but i do n't know , 
at least drug addiction can be treated whereas aids , so far , can not be , 
so , i do n't know , 
i 'm not too much against the passing out of the free syringes myself . 
i do n't know , 
what do you think about that ? 
that 's a hard issue . 
it really is . 
it really is . 
it really is . 
they gave us a hard topic . 
i definitely think that it 's the drug problem that needs to be addressed , 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
i guess if you consider the two problems , drug addiction and aids aids would have to come first as far as something to do about it . 
so i do n't know . 
course , there 's so many things in the world where , if you solve one problem , you may be creating another . 
so i guess you just have to take the two problems and see which is worse . which is the most important to solve at the time 
i do n't know . 
but i 've never looked into how much money they 're spending . 
i have no idea . 
and i know a lot of our tax money goes to that . 
but i really have never looked into it . 
i have no idea . 
i have n't either . 
i 've heard different voices speaking up and saying we 're not spending enough 
and , mostly that 's what i 've heard , 
so i do n't know , 
and , yet , i know it sounds like big money to me . 
but it probably takes a lot . 
i think it is . 
i think it is . 
it seems to take more than for any little thing they do , 
it seems to take a lot more money that you would think it would . 
did you have any fear working in the hospital with that , 
that 's one thing i 've never really feared . 
a lot of my family they fear me working like that and , under some of those conditions , 
but i do n't fear it at all . 
i work in the operating room a lot 
got any problems on mockingbird with crime 
or is that a crime free zone there ? 
i do n't think there is any such thing , as a crime free zone any longer . 
i 'm afraid you 're right . 
one evening i decided to retire early and heard sirens and noises and thought , something happens on mockingbird and then heard yells and screams 
and the next thing i know there are policemen all around my house . 
and they had stopped a stolen car and caught one of the men in the hedge 
and then the other one was on the roof in the back . 
by your house ? 
on my house . 
so i 'm very much aware of crime in the cities and the concern about it . 
that 's got to be a frightening way to spend an evening . 
it was . 
i kept hearing noises 
and so i knew that i was not going to sleep until i got up and went out and checked the garage , 
so i got my gun and walked through the house into the garage . 
there was no one there , 
but i wanted to be sure . 
is plano beginning to experience the kinds of things that are more common in the urban area ? 
unfortunately . 
that 's too bad . 
i think as any city grows up you get the hoods and the riffraff and everybody else in there , 
fortunately the sirens and everything we hear are over on spring creek , 
but we 've lived here sixteen years 
and now you can tell the change , for sure . 
i was thinking , if you 've been there that long , you 've seen plano grow from what was really a small town to a city . 
central expressway with all the stores and the restaurants and the convenience stores and all that kind of stuff , it 's just prime pickings for people driving by . 
i was appalled to read the other day about the shooting on the tollway . 
that could n't be too far from you , neither . 
it 's farther west of me . 
i live over near white rock lake . 
it was really frightening to , think that it 's not even safe to drive onto the tollway , or for those people in the tollbooth . 
i never thought about someone robbing those , 
but , apparently , they do . 
i do n't know how a few bucks can be worth shooting somebody 
it just does n't seem possible , does it . 
it 's kind of stupid , is n't it . 
but i guess when people do those things , they do n't really give a thought of the consequences at the time . 
it looks like easy pickings 
and away you go . 
and i think the drugs play a tremendous part in the theft and the violence that we see . 
i think you 're right although i think that may be an excuse for people , too . 
it is convenient , is n't it ? 
i did n't know what i was doing . 
that kind . 
just like the old alcohol idea 
and i think when you have haves and have nots , you 're always going to find people that are too lazy to figure a way to earn money and find it 's easier if you can get a gun to go out and hold something up than it is to figure out a way to legitimately earn the money . 
and i work in south dallas for the dallas school system . 
where do you work ? 
do you know where oakland and hatcher are ? 
i think i do . 
is that amelia earhart , school there ? 
this is over near lincoln high school . just , not far off south central expressway . 
that 's a pretty rough area there , is n't it ? 
it is a pretty rough area . 
we 're over by fair park . 
and you watch the people . 
there are marvelous b m w -s and mercedes and cadillacs and everything parked all up and down the street outside these awful taverns . 
and the kids see that 
definitely that area , that 's big time . 
big time there , 
sure is . 
it surely is . 
i do n't think i 'd go to work without a bulletproof vest on myself . 
i 'm careful . 
that 's the worst neighborhood in the whole area . 
it 's a little scary sometimes 
you probably more up on this subject than i am , 
but , the roles that women have played in the last couple of generations . 
they 've entered the work force more since world war two is when they started . 
you bet . 
and i think that that is very significant that the percentage of the work force today consists of such a high percent of women . 
you bet . 
i 'm a traveling salesperson 
and i have traveled most of my life 
and i know just especially in the last ten years and really in the last half of dozen years i see more and more women traveling . 
as far as boarding planes and driving cars and calling on customers . 
i sell sporting goods 
and even in our industry there was really and truly no women as far as selling the type of things i sell 
and even in the last five or six years we see more and more women being involved 
and it 's a credit to them as far as how they 're doing things . 
you see more of them , leaving their children in the care of their husbands while they do travel , too . 
you bet . 
one of the girls travels quite extensively 
and she says , my children have two parents . 
why not . 
you bet . 
that 's sort of neat . 
so i think that 's a change 
and i think that 's a change you 're going to be seeing more of in the future , people having that kind of attitude that the father 's going to take more active role in child rearing . 
i think it 's the age old thing , 
every once in a while you read in the newspaper or you 'll see it on t v or something where the discussion comes out that women are paid less than men 
and they 're carrying the same job responsibility 
and that 's a very true statement 
and it should n't be that way . 
that will change in the near future also . 
i hope so , 
it 's been changing , 
it 's been evolving , 
but there 's still an inequality in the work forces or jobs . 
and you hear some people say he 's a man , 
he needs that salary . 
they forget . 
also , i think a good argument for that is in the area of politics , 
a woman congressman makes as much as a man congressman and the same as a senator or whatever . 
so they certainly deserve it all the way . 
but , i guess just the most significant thing changed for me , again , as i mentioned , was just in traveling , 
you see more and more ladies of all ages with briefcases and in their business suits and going . 
and going , 
and i expect you 're right in regards to having two parents now . 
that 's a good statement . 
i think it will be . 
another thing i read , too , the other day is the car designers are starting to design cars with women in mind . 
because in the past the male bought the cars , but now they 're showing that fifty-five percent of women are actually making the new car purchases . and that they are looking for different things in the car . 
the man is looking in the engine 
and the woman is looking to how easy can she slide in under the steering wheel . can her makeup come off the upholstery . 
you bet . 
good point . 
and if they 're out there buying that many cars , then there 's that many out that are self sufficient and mobile and working . 
right now i 'm self employed 
and my wife 's always worked . 
she 's a schoolteacher , 
she started working 
she was selling real estate at the time 
and hers was the only income we had for three or four months 
she certainly did her part in 
and she still works everyday 
we all do . 
you bet . 
i just happen to be off today . 
i work , too . 
enjoying it . 
what kind of work do you do ? 
i 'm a nurse . 
and i work at medical treatment center which is at jupiter and arapaho . 
married ? 
trying to think what else i can say in regards to this subject . 
i do n't know , 
i 'm kind of out of things . 
you see the old cigarette ads about you 've come a long way . 
you 've come a long way baby ? 
baby , 
you think about this when it comes to a subject like that 
and it 's really true . 
women have come a long way 
so you have a child two years old in child care right now . 
two year old daughter in child care 
and we went through the process of searching for child care and finding what we consider to be , real good child care at a pretty reasonable price . 
how about you , 
do you have any children ? 
our first 
and he just turned three months . 
so , we 're just starting into hunting for child care . 
right now , both of us are students . 
are you ? 
where are ? 
university of southern mississippi . 
no kidding . 
i was a professor in a university here in california for a while . 
are you going to put your son in child care in a year or two ? 
probably . 
actually spring semester a year from now he 's going to have to be in child care five days a week more than likely . depending on how my class schedule runs 
because my wife will be doing her internship that semester . 
it will be forty hour week eight to five type of thing . 
so , depending on what my class schedule looks like , he may spend anywhere from four to eight hours a day in child care at that point . 
right now we 're trying to avoid it , 
but we just , as a matter of fact just yesterday hired a girl to watch him . 
i get out of class at certain time 
and my wife is already supposed to be on her way to her class . 
once a day this overlap happens where we ca n't , one of us be home . 
so for about twenty , thirty minutes a day we got a baby-sitter comes in . 
that 's a good experience , i think , 
and there are a lot of things to think about 
and the articles that are written on the topic , are pretty good 
any other important decision you really have to explore the alternative 
and what we found to be the best guide was our own instincts about , people who were going to be loving 
and that 's more important than anything else . 
we could have sent her to a fancier facility . 
she goes to a home . 
this is a couple emigrated from china early in their lives . 
they 've been here probably thirty , forty years . 
they 've got three daughters . 
and , they have a loving home 
and they 're both there 
and they have a kid that comes in and helps them in the afternoon . 
and our daughter is healthy , happy , well adjusted and enjoys going to see her friends , 
so it 's a good experience . 
that makes a big difference . 
if it 's good , i think it 's very good for the child . 
and if it 's , a loving environment , i think it 's very good 
and , and that 's really what we 've learned about it . 
she 'll have to go on to something more stimulating in terms of preschool in a year 
but we feel real fortunate 
and we were able to just choose in the marketplace . 
i do n't know what it 's like around hattiesburg . 
there 's a lot of child care available , 
but invariably there 's waiting lists . 
and we were a little slow getting on the waiting list with their home ec department 
i 'll bet they 're involved . 
they have a subbranch american family counseling 
and their people staff the child care center just off campus . 
but they have a pretty good size waiting list . 
i know it 's a real hard thing to do , even for people in , university communities . 
out here at manford , they have a real good facility 
and there is quite a waiting list to get into that . 
so it 's an important , decision , 
it 's an industry that 's still a cottage industry 
and i think this really is buyer beware . 
it 's best , 
a cottage industry 's the best way to do it really , 
it is the best way to do it , interestingly . 
i think that my own interest in human development leads me to believe that that 's a good sign and that private enterprise is the way to go and that it will lead to a fundamental change in the way we learn . 
because , i think what we 're going to go to is much more commercial entrepreneurial learning ventures in the market . 
as a matter of fact , my future is banked on that professionally because i believe that there are pressing needs in the marketplace , unmet by schools , colleges universities for learning a lot of things that kids can learn watching sesame street and in child care . 
primary skills which turn out to be the most important skills in life . 
and it 's amazing how much good things like sesame street will do . 
it 's phenomenal . 
it 's phenomenal , the human operating system , 
credit cards . 
i 'll tell you what , 
i ca n't say a whole lot about credit cards because i tore mine up . 
is that right ? 
i know some other people that have done that . 
i got in some financial problems because of credit cards 
so i basically just got rid of all of them . 
i have a couple . 
i have a gas card that i use just for gas and one that i use just for emergencies 
we have some friends that did exactly the same thing . 
they kind of overextended and borrowed and borrowed 
and finally they realized that they were abusing them and were n't going to get out of the hole 
and they just cut them all up except for one they kept for emergencies 
and they 're still paying away to get out of debt . 
i know it . 
but 
i did just the opposite . 
i guess i sort of followed in my parents ' footsteps . 
i have quite a few of them . 
i use them continually , 
but i basically never charge anything i do n't have the money in the bank to pay for . 
and i always pay them off totally every month . 
is that right ? 
that 's a good policy . 
and they 're just a convenience for me . 
i do n't have to get cash out of the bank , 
and i do n't have to be writing checks 
sometimes i wish i had them , 
but in most cases , i 'm glad i do n't because unfortunately i do n't have the control you have . 
i wish i did , 
but i do n't . 
i just do n't want to get into that situation again , 
it 's easy , 
you do n't have anything transferring , just a little signature , 
so what . 
that 's it . 
even with my gas card i find that i 'll go in to get some gas 
and i 'll end up buying candy and drinks and sweets and whatever , 
and then at the end of the month i get a bill 
and i 'm thinking what did i get , that costs so much . 
surprising . 
there are some inherent limits there , 
you 're not going to run up a few thousand dollars for that , 
that 's true , 
the thing that probably helps me most doing that is really not so much discipline , 
you have sort of a discipline in general about finances , 
is n't it , 
that 's unbelievable . 
let me ask you this . 
, how old are you ? 
i 'm thirty-three . 
thirty-three ? 
thirty-two , 
excuse me . 
you 'll be thirty-three this year ? 
you want to be thirty-two as long as you can . 
it 's coming . 
i know what you mean about the interest rates . 
it 's unbelievable . 
that just irritates me so much that i refuse to pay them interest 
and my wife recently decided she had to go to brazil and was going to take off 
and , she 's from there and , did n't really have the money , 
but she could pay it off , 
and so i , sort of reluctantly let her put it on credit cards , 
but she 's paying it , 
and i just wo n't do it . 
she 's paying , i do n't know what per month forty , fifty dollars per month in interest 
and i just refuse to give it to them . 
if i need to borrow that kind of money , i 'll go to the bank 
and then , you bet . 
in fact , i 've even heard some people that have applied for credit cards with much less rates and have paid off their higher interest rate cards and just sent them back . 
income . 
and i guess there 's some negotiating there , too , 
if you 've got a pretty good credit rating you can call wherever you got your card from and tell them , either drop my rates or drop my annual fees 
or i 'll just go to somewhere else . 
and if you 've got a pretty good history with them they 're more than willing to do that . 
i might try that because i have one card that i 've had for about nine or ten years . 
he wrote a book on it 
and he says he 's tried it with several of his cards 
and he 's just told them i can get this card from this bank at this rate 
and yours is at eighteen or nineteen percent . 
it does not make sense for me to do that 
and if you wo n't drop my rates , i 'll just go ahead and send you back your card 
and i 'll go somewhere else and get it . 
for me the big thing is the annual fee 
and i just refuse , 
i wo n't get any card now , 
i 've got a good rating 
and i 'm not going to pay an annual fee . 
this is an unusual topic . 
what do you think about it ? 
it took eight times to find you 
what should i say 
and then he reminded me , 
but in his family what they usually do , on his dad 's side , his mom or the aunts will send out little postcards two or three weeks before reminding everyone where to meet and just , to bring anything , 
and so they just notify everyone by mail , 
and then they just meet at a park or something to have a small , dinner type thing . 
that sounds great , ellen . 
how far away do they come from ? 
they all meet in portland 
and they come as far as seattle 
and sometimes we 've gone 
and we were living in utah at the time . 
and his dad 's family is all around the area 
and his mom 's side of the family , they all have their family reunions in southern utah 
and people would come from seattle to there , nevada and in that area , washington and nevada to southern utah 
and each time they had a reunion they 'd assign a different person to be in charge of notifying everybody . 
that makes sense . 
nobody 's out of a lot of trouble more than once . 
and the people who are down there they 'll assign one person in the utah area , one person in the washington area 
and that person can call beforehand and just make sure everyone knows , too . 
and then they just sort of do a little program or something like that so that everyone 's sort of involved . 
that 's interesting . 
you sound like you 've had a lot of experience with this , then . 
that 's my husband 's side 
and my family , we all live in southern california 
so we just have to either or , give a formal invite 
and we 're all there 
southern california 's still pretty large . 
l a , orange county area . 
everyone 's mostly not farther than an hour away . 
i see . 
my experience has been limited pretty much lately to my mother 's side of the family . 
years ago there was a big dispute on my dad 's side 
and they have n't had a reunion since then . 
they just show up at funerals and weddings . 
it was pretty serious and lot of yelling and all that , 
but my mother 's side we had our first real reunion that i 've ever gone to last summer 
and they had people come in from out of town 
and they took some rooms down at a holiday inn 
and they had some activity , 
they had a nice dinner planned and all of that stuff 
and people got up and talked about various parts of the family tree 
and a lot of that sort of thing . 
since it was the first one that we 'd had you could do that once . 
next time we have one , we 'll have to think of something more creative to do . 
that 's interesting because one thing that always brings my husband 's mother 's side together is they talk about the genealogy of the family tree every time 
and inevitably everyone is just very interested 
and they always have two or three new ones to add to the list , 
someone 's been born 
or someone passed away 
or something like that 
and so everyone has to update their little books or whatever . 
do you have an interest in genealogy ? 
i do , but not very much compared to my mother-in-law . 
not a passion . 
i suspect we 'll do quite a bit more genealogy 
and i suspect we will do more of it . 
i found out about some of the relatives 
i did n't even know their names , some of the two or three generations back and some of the aunts and uncles 
and there 's a lot of things there you have to stop , 
they 're really kind of fascinating . 
i found out my grandmother was one of a twin . 
we have virtually no background on the twin . 
is it your grandma 's own sibling 
my grandmother 's sister who would be somewhere in west virginia . 
i 'm sure she 's dead now , because my grandmother died about twenty years ago . 
i see . 
i 'm probably a lot older than you are . 
maybe they just moved away and then sort of lost contact . 
i do n't know . 
how you doing ? 
fine . 
i 'm over here in plano , texas . 
let me ask you something , 
can i run a minute and shut my radio off ? 
where are you calling from 
or where are you at ? 
arlington . 
arlington , texas . 
arlington . 
there 's a lot of stuff going on in arlington these days . 
not all good stuff . 
are you involved in any of that ? 
i 'm not personally . 
do you work ? 
i 'm going to school right now . 
you are ? 
i can tell you about my last job or whatever you want to talk about that or my husband 's or what i think . 
because i work for myself 
and so there 's a lot that i guess i do miss a lot of benefits from working for a big corporation . 
i miss insurance and the steady paychecks that come . 
i 've been in my own business , mary kay , in fact , 
i 'm selling in out now to go to school full time 
and i enjoyed the freedom of having that , 
is that right ? 
go to work when i wanted to or not 
but the benefits were n't there . 
i own part of a roofing company . 
do you ? 
in the dallas , fort worth area . 
and unfortunately we were part of a bigger company 
and we had all the benefits there 
and i do miss that , 
but on the other hand i enjoy having the time that i have with my family and being able to work when i want 
because my husband gets , his medical through his company , 
but we have to pay for mine 
and i 'm the only one that 's being insured 
and we pay the same amount that someone over there that has four children has , 
is that right ? 
and the way medical expenses are i think that 's probably one of the biggest benefits you need to have . 
i 'll tell you what , 
that is the single most benefit that i enjoyed , and i do miss 
because i looked into picking up some medical insurance just for my family just , 
and it is unbelievable how much you have to pay for it . 
it 's out of sight . 
it 's out of sight . 
even at a group rate . 
it 's unbelievable 
and the amount that you have to pay for kids 
and if you want to add dental to it that eats even more . 
it goes up . 
i guess the other benefits that i miss is some of the bonuses and stuff that goes on with just being involved with a big company 
i feel bad for the people that are involved in that g m deal there in arlington 
and i 'm sure it will be quite a few people are affected by that 
it 's going to hurt the city , 
although i will personally tell you , i used to work at a bank , 
and i would see the g m people come in when they would shut down to retool . 
they were paid that whole time 
they come in there , 
just , they go off fishing and stuff and come in every friday , and go to the safety deposit box , 
and i 'm sitting there making a hundred dollars a week 
is that right ? 
i really believe they have done this to themselves , in a way , because of the unions being so stocked . 
the union , 
and right now , anybody that 's laid off from g m will have a full year 's paycheck . 
i just read this in the paper the other day . 
is that right ? 
plus probably an additional six months through the worker 's stuff that they have through the company 
so i 'm sorry it 's happening because it 's going to hurt , 
but i do n't feel as sorry for them , 
if my husband were laid off tomorrow , we 'd get one more check 
and that would be it . 
really the ones it 's going to hurt is actually the businesses around in that area . 
that 's already hurting . 
that 's the ones that that 's going to hurt because they depend on that , 
they voted them in 
and they got so good like two dollars for a prescription no deductible on the medical , all these things 
and it made the prices of cars go up 
i believe in unions , 
but they went too far . 
i 'll tell you , 
i 've had my fill of unions . 
i ca n't make eighteen dollars an hour . 
i know someone out here that makes eighteen dollars an hour . 
if you 're from iowa , you must be very artsy crafty . 
everyone i 've ever known from the midwest can do everything with their hands . 
actually i 'm from california 
and before then i was from utah . 
i did n't know anyone ever moved from california to iowa ? 
i grew up in california , 
and then i went to school in utah , 
and i got married there 
and we stayed there for a while , 
and then , now we 're in iowa . 
i 'm teasing , only because i 'm from indiana . 
i like the midwest . 
but i married a texan , 
and they have a way of dragging you back home . 
anyway , we 're supposed to be talking about crafts . 
i crochet , 
and i do water color , 
and i sew 
and i do fabric painting . 
you do a lot then . 
do you do needlepoint also and cross stitching ? 
i 've done some cross stitching . 
i have n't tried any needlepoint yet . 
how about you ? 
actually i 'm pretty untalented . 
i used to do a lot of knitting and crocheting , 
but i do n't know , 
somehow i do n't have the time anymore . 
but i have all these friends that wherever you go , they sit down and the next thing you know , they pull out of their bags their most recent needle craft 
and in december everyone was doing stockings these gorgeous , detailed minute , tiny stitch stockings . 
those take a lot of time . 
i only can do things that are pretty fast , because we just got our baby last year , 
and i just do n't have the patience to just do something . 
is this your first baby ? 
have you crocheted or knitted any baby clothes or baby blankets ? 
i crocheted an afghan for our bed . 
that 's the only thing , 
and i did a quilt , 
let 's see , 
i 've done a quilt for our baby 
and i 've done a quilt for our bed , 
did you embroidery the pattern and then quilt it yourself , 
or how did you make a quilt ? 
our baby 's quilt , it was like the design , 
i just went around the design in the quilt . 
i did n't piece it or anything like that 
but you actually hand quilted it yourself ? 
did you need a loom , 
was it small enough that you could just hold it ? 
i put it on the quilting frame . 
are you familiar with that ? 
we had a quilting frame in our basement , 
and she would quilt whole quilts by herself . 
i was always amazed . 
i have one of them . , 
but to have the quilting frame and then to actually do that , it 's a tremendous amount of work . 
i have n't done tons of them . 
but i used to do more before we got our baby , 
you can use crafts to make wonderful things for children . 
i think afghans and the crocheted little sweaters , are wonderful . 
and they 'll wear them . 
once they get old enough to talk then they no longer will wear them . 
one thing that i like about this fabric painting thing is i can just make a t shirt and put a little ruffle around it and then cut out a little pattern from some material , like flowers or something , and make a design or a little arrangement or something on the shirt and fuse it on with heat and bond , or whatever and then paint around it . 
and i usually sew around the flower , whatever first , 
and then i paint around it 
so you ca n't see the stitching as much . 
does that make sense to you ? 
i think it 's very clever . 
for christmas , my daughter and i received matching sweat shirts that a friend had made for us . 
a beautiful christmas design , 
and they were matching 
and they were lovely , 
but when i washed them , although i took the precaution of turning them inside out truly , everything fell off , or most of it . 
so i went and bought just some cloth glue and glued it all back 
and i bought the paint and redid most of the edges 
and it was salvageable , 
so i 'm familiar with that , 
but i think you 're very clever to sew around the edges . 
i think gluing alone , certainly if you wash it any amount of time , it tends to kind of come loose at the edges . 
someone told me that they had done it both ways , 
and after hearing that , i always sewed it on , 
a loose zigzag even helps . 
what are your favorite shows ? 
i like watching colombo and matlock and quantum leap , 
quantum leap ? 
did you see it the other night ? 
that was pretty good . 
that one was . 
with the psychic and everything ? 
i like northern exposure and home improvement . 
i have n't seen either of those . 
you 've never seen northern exposure ? 
it 's a great show . 
i also like to watch star trek , 
but it 's on so late here , that i do n't always get to see it . 
we like it , too . 
have you seen the movie ? 
i have n't seen any of the movies because i just barely , just in the last year or so got interested in it , 
and they 're already out with number six by now , 
so i have n't seen any of the movies , yet , 
you have n't seen any of them . 
they 're good , 
they 're real good . 
they 're getting rid of the old cast for the movies , though . 
which ones are you watching , 
the new ones ? 
i 've seen quite a few of the older ones . 
i have n't seen really the new generation that much . 
is there one you prefer better , 
the older one or the newer one ? 
they 're a lot different . 
but , i like the older ones because at that time they were really futuristic . 
and i guess the newer ones are real futuristic , too , 
but i like both of them . 
i do too . 
i have a brother-in-law who really likes the old ones a lot , 
he almost hates the new ones . 
because he thinks the newer ones is like a soap opera and the other one is n't or something , 
but , i do n't . 
not really . 
it 's not really like a soap opera , 
but that 's true , 
you learn more about the characters and stuff , 
but that 's the way all shows are now . 
let 's see . 
i like to watch colombo because it 's like a mystery thing . 
that 's sort of how matlock is , 
but colombo is way tricky 
he does n't even try to let the person know he 's getting onto them . 
it seems like they always show colombo , 
the same ones over and over , though like that one where he goes to college , 
or is there a series on . 
there 's one on , 
we see it thursdays at seven , 
this last time it was about this movie director , 
i saw that one . 
did you see that ? 
that was a rerun . 
i do n't know if that 's the movie of the week or what , 
but it seems like there 's only about four or five different ones , 
and then they keep showing them over and over . 
i guess i have n't seen it before . 
he was a movie director , 
and he had that gal killed . 
on the set or something . 
that was pretty good though . 
it was . 
but 
i like colombo probably the best of any of those mystery things . 
but there 's never anything good on saturdays , though . 
no kidding . 
i do n't think so . 
star trek 's on at five , 
but i 'm never home 
there 's something i watch on saturdays , 
and i ca n't remember what it is . 
i used to watch twin peaks . 
you never saw that ? 
i 've heard of it a lot , 
i 've heard of , a lot of people somehow or something . 
they 'll say , so and so from twin peaks , or something . 
that was a different soap opera . 
but , it was a different type of show . 
i did n't like the way it ended , though . 
did they end the whole series ? 
they only did it for two years . 
but it 's all over now . 
another show i like to watch is mash . 
my name is dolphene . 
i live in texas . 
my name is pat johnson 
and i live in texas too . 
i work for t i , 
do you also ? 
i live in dallas . 
i work for the dallas school system . 
you ready to begin ? 
we might as well . 
i understand we are doing care of the elderly ? 
and how do you feel about putting someone in the nursing home ? 
i do n't think that any of my relatives would really like to go there . 
i believe , if i , am in a position when my mother gets to a point where she needs special care that i will be able to just bring her into my home and my father also or have someone go into their home and look after them . 
i would find it very difficult to place my father or my step-mother in a place like that . particularly , since i know how they feel about it . 
it 's more how they feel about it . 
and it is like they feel like somebody had thrown them away ? 
i do think that there are some significant kinds of things to look for if you are faced with placing someone . in a place like that aside from the cleanliness and the medical care that is offered and such 
but attitude of staff makes such a tremendous difference . 
and i have a friend who is partly paralyzed and is in a nursing home and has no family who could care for her . 
and i know that the cheerful pleasant people who treat her kindly make all the difference in the world in how she feels about her situation . 
i use to work in one of the offices in a nursing home 
and i got to see a lot of the things that they did 
they had a lot of crafts 
and they had a lot of games 
they do all sorts of things 
some of the people that are in there are very nice and friendly to everybody 
it is just a job 
and they just want to go in and do what they have to do and get out go home . 
the attitude of the staff as you said is really very very important . 
i think it would matter too kinds of disabilities that the nursing home accepts . because there are some who poor things do n't have any real grasp on reality any longer . 
and they may be ambulatory , 
but they tend to behave like small children 
and that would be very difficult for an adult who was n't in that situation to have to deal with on a daily basis . 
they would just roll themselves around all over the place 
and they would enjoy themselves with activities 
and then you would see some of the others that were distant from the other group 
and they just did n't participate together with the others because they had some , slight mental disabilities and things like that . 
what do you call alzheimer disease and stuff like that 
alzheimer , 
and they were n't really together with the rest of them , when they got together for such activities . 
what are your opinions on recycling ? 
i definitely think that we need to start recycling . 
i think if we wait which is happening until somebody says we have to do it it is going to be to late . 
i have heard reports around here that the landfills will be full by the year two thousand . 
i have heard that too . 
and that is not too far away , 
but i do n't know how it is there . 
it is very difficult here even if you care like i do to do much . 
i take , my paper , 
i can take plastic and paper bags back to the grocery store 
and i can take plastic milk cartons or if they have water in them 
and there are some fire stations i can take newspapers to 
and that is very inconvenient cause i have to wait until i have enough of them to make the trip worthwhile . 
i started saving newspapers 
and i would take a ton of them 
i ca n't remember where i went to take them , 
but they would n't take them . 
it is real hard to find a spot 
and then , i do n't know if you note , even doing that , the amount of trash we throw away is incredible 
bottles 
i know . 
glass 
it could be recycled , 
there is no really recycling facilities . 
we have a pilot program in arlington going on in the north part of the city where they have people separate the trash as they put it out . 
i think that is a good idea . 
besides a law or whatever . 
that 's how it is in new york is n't it . 
i think so , 
just because they have to , 
and you get ticketed if you do n't do it right . 
it 's trouble for me to do what i do 
i am willing to do it 
plus you have to have a place to store all of it 
and i live in an apartment . 
it is very difficult . 
our garage is always full of sacks of newspapers 
and , so , i do n't know . 
i think there needs to be more places 
and also i have a real strong opinion . 
in iowa , the state i am from i believe it has gone up to a dollar now . 
every time you buy a container , no matter what it is , whether it is glass , whether it 's a beer can or a fifth of whiskey or a pop or whatever , you pay ten cents for it 
and then you take it back to the store 
and you get it back . 
so that way it kind of forces you to recycle . 
you are forced to . 
and you also do n't see the litter there . 
that 's true . 
it makes it worthwhile to take it back 
and i 've just started drinking a new water called clearly canadian , 
i do n't know if you 've tried it 
i have seen them . 
that take them back . 
some of them are five , 
some are ten cents . 
i am looking at it right now . 
is texas one of them ? 
texas is not one of them . 
so , i have to throw them away cause there is no place to take glass . 
i do n't think that there is enough being done . 
i work at j c penny at their corporate headquarters . 
and we have a paper recycling program that is company wide 
and i do the recycling for that . 
do they save the paper they use at the office . 
because there is a lot of waste there is n't there . 
and i know there is a lot of computer paper that you ca n't use . 
i do n't even remember the money that they 've made from the recycling program . 
they have donated it to charities . 
they have made a substantial amount of money from it . 
downy fabric softener now has where you can buy a little carton 
i image everybody else will start doing that sooner or later , 
but i am going to stick with downey because they were first . 
and i want them to have my business . 
and i think packaging could be done much better . 
there is so much plastic . 
i know , 
you see some of the stuff 
and then when they come out with the new things , you are why did n't you think of that before . 
and i think that it 's just people have got to be aware . 
unfortunately , there are a lot of people that just do n't care 
and they do n't want to think about it . 
that 's true . 
and i just look at it , i do n't want my grandchildren looking at me and saying why did n't you do something . 
i want to feel like i at least tried . 
and i do n't know . 
it just may overwhelm us here when we run out of places to put it . 
then we will be forced to . 
it may be too late . 
very little . 
then , that 's pollution . 
i use a couple of things from amway that it says this is burnable material . 
that does n't do me any good because i do n't have any place to burn it . 
i know . 
i guess you run into the pollution factor . 
and then just like the glass bottles , that it says on the bottle i can get ten cents , but not in texas . 
and there is no place i can take glass to . 
so , i still throw away a lot of glass . 
it is really sad . 
and then the packaging thing really grips me . 
you buy some 
and it 's got a great big piece of cardboard and a great big piece of plastic , 
it depends upon our weather here , 
today was a beautiful day 
it was like summer day . 
it was seventy degrees 
so i dressed in a light weight skirt , 
it 's a ultra suede skirt and a blouse with a sweater , cardigan over it . 
because i had some appointments at the office today , some interviews 
and so i had to dress up anyway 
and then i wore heels . 
but when it rains a lot , which is has been doing here a lot lately very often wear pants and boots . 
how do you dress ? 
i 'm going to talk about when i was working as a teacher and when i was working . 
when i was a teacher in utah , i would generally wear dresses and heels and things like that , 
and even when it rained and snowed i just braved it 
and i wore heels anyway . 
i 've been a teacher 
so has my daughter 
and i know that we very often wore heels despite the fact that , it was tiring . 
i know , 
it might kill you to go up and , walk up to the door 
that 's right . 
but you 're going to look nice for the kids . 
that 's right 
and it always makes you feel like you 're a bigger person than the kids ? 
i need all the height i can get . 
i do too . 
so to be taller than some of the boys in the older grades , i had to wear heels . 
if it looked really dangerous then i would wear boots 
but then i would change into heels , as soon as i got to my desk . 
of course , we wear an unlined boots , 
it has a heel on it . 
they 're the kind of boots that i wear to work 
and we wear them , 
they 're a leather boot that you wear 
and as i said they have a regular heel on them , high heel . 
and we wear them a lot with shirts and things . 
i ca n't say constant down here in texas that you wear these boots . 
they 're not a cowboy boot , 
but they 're just a real pretty boot , 
but they keep your feet nice and toasty . 
as i have a private high school that i run here when i 'm interviewing a parent , of course i feel like i need to wear heels and look like i 'm a business person because the children will tease about where 's your motorcycle , if you wear boots too often . 
of course , you probably wear coats a lot . 
the first two years i was in a room where they did n't heat it . 
so i did , 
so then you had to . 
and then the third year we got heating 
so it was nice . 
then things improved , 
but of course , here we wear a light weight jacket a lot , 
that 's nice . 
and that 's very seldom 
it depends upon our winter . 
we have a few days you might wear a winter coat , , 
but most of the time you can wear a sweater 
and we just do n't wear coats much . 
we often laugh about even when it turns chilly . 
we 're wearing something lightweight or no jacket because we 're so used to running around like that . 
it 's really different . 
let 's put it that way . 
are you not teaching anymore ? 
we moved to iowa 
and i 'm working at a day care right now . 
i see . 
and so the way i dress is really different because i 'm working in the nursery room with kids from six months to twenty months . 
so you do n't wear heels anymore i 'll bet . 
more practical . 
it does n't matter if i have to wash it a hundred times or something . 
when you were teaching , did you ever have a blue jean day or anything like that ? 
but i never wore jeans because i thought that was too casual . 
i know that some of the schools they have country western day or something like that one or tacky day , 
and i always thought it got out of hand when the teachers looked real tacky too . 
it 's all right for the students , 
they look tacky a lot 
but i did n't think teachers should . 
that 's how i feel too . 
do you like iowa ? 
there 's some good things about it 
but i 've seen . a lot of things i 'm not used to yet , 
where did you live before ? 
we lived in utah before 
and i grew up in california . 
that 's quite a change from california to utah , 
i guess we 're forced finally , to do a lot about air pollution . 
i hear that the major automobile manufacturers are looking at nonpolluting cars 
and low polluting fuels are being experimented with ethanol and other types of fuels . 
one of the things they asked me to ask you was where you thought the major source was coming from ? or sources . 
i assume , that the major sources are cars and factories . 
that 's what , i would think . 
but i do n't know for sure . 
comes over the border from us . 
i think the automobile definitely is an area and any industry that burns , 
and then i do n't know about chemical pollution . 
i 'm not real into that as far as how it affects the air . 
i know we have a lot of the indoor type pollution . 
they have offices that are too well insulated . 
they found people are getting sick , 
but i do n't know if that affects outside . 
seems to me that 's what they were asking about was outside 
and the only thing i can think of would be cars and factories . 
the smokestacks or the exhaust pipes . 
i guess there 's been a lot of pressure to do away with the c f c 's in these spray bottles which , has been a real problem . 
that 's destroying the ozone , is n't it ? 
again that 's what i hear 
and there 's this big debate apparently about whether there 's a hole in the ozone or not 
but at last i heard it was discovered that the hole was bigger than they thought , initially . 
it 's kind of scary . 
it is scary 
and i think it will continue to force us to clean up our act , literally and figuratively . 
we 've got to learn to manage without destroying the environment . 
i think something too that you probably see in older states , is where people will use their fireplaces . 
i 'm wondering whether it 's going to get to the point where you ca n't , do that . 
i think it will . 
they 've passed laws that , for habit , for example , people using barbecues gasoline lawn mowers , 
and it 's really bad in places like los angeles , 
and , it 's gotten bad in denver 
and , it 's not too bad around here although you see it more and more in the sky . 
and people in this country are really wedded to their cars , 
and this is one of the big problems , 
in this area too since in texas we 're so spread out , 
we have to drive so far , 
but i know in colorado i have witnessed that where it just stacks up when the rockies starts , 
but we 're even getting it here . 
we can when we 've been on vacation or something drive into fort worth or dallas 
and you can tell it in the mornings too . 
my husband likes to go out and jog 
and there 's just a brown fog here 
and we do n't even have any mountains that are , holding it in . 
but they also said that more dense the population and the more we crowd together , the worse it gets . 
that makes a lot of sense . 
i had n't thought about it that way 
you do n't have to have mountains that are stopping it . 
and they making more and more high-rise buildings 
so 
we can comment 
and we did n't see this a few years ago . 
it was pretty clear here . 
and we 're going to feel it , 
and i think it 's going to be real interesting and particularly in light of what is obviously going to be a big structural change in the economy , in this country whether people are willing to get out of their cars , 
and in this country the solution that people seem to think work are politically unacceptable . 
for example , taxing people heavily for using their cars . 
and i have a little sports car that i enjoy using 
and i know just like anybody else how much fun it is to drive 
but i think we 're going to have to make some fundamental changes 
and i 'm not sure how long it 's going to take or what it 's going to take because they keep saying that the economy is going to depend on how many cars and , houses we sell . 
and it 's a shame too when you do see somebody driving a big car , just one person in that . 
it 's a lot of waste 
do you have any elderly relatives currently in an nursing home now ? 
i do . 
do you ? 
i have a grandmother . 
she 's a hundred and two . 
she 'll be a hundred and three in august . 
and we decide not to put her in a nursing home . 
she lives with my mother and my father who also live here in town 
and then my sister takes care of her . 
even though she is a hundred and two , she still has all of her faculties . 
she still has her snap . 
she takes care of her own business . 
this is the first year that she has gotten weak and actually has to have a little walker , 
i have seen my family age . 
she 's been there ten years now . 
and i have seen them age twenty in the time and with the expense and everything , 
i still think it is worth it if you had a good nursing home 
and they needed some quality care , 
i would put someone in a nursing home . 
they had to make a family decision . 
there 's seven children in my husband 's family 
and fortunately four of them live in the same home town 
and she has alzheimer 's . 
it was getting where she was getting dangerous . letting strangers in and things like this , 
but they were very fortunate . 
it 's a small town 
and she happens to room with one of the doctor 's mothers 
and then she 's got a lot of family there and that go and see her all of the time 
that 's good . 
nobody thought she would adjust , 
but she has adjusted beautifully . 
that is great . 
but then i am also facing my father who is very sick 
and my mother and father reside in colorado . 
she 's been taking care of him . 
i do n't know how much longer this can last 
he ca n't do anything without her . 
he does n't know when to take his medicine 
and it 's really sad 
my brothers are not interested in helping me 
so i would have to move him down here . 
i want to see the nursing home . if i have to put him into one . 
where i can go see it . 
i 'd be very uncomfortable with him being in colorado . 
i am sure you have got some really good nursing homes around dallas . 
they have apartment styles , 
but that would n't work for him . 
i think he is beyond that . 
where if you need help you can get it , 
but basically people kind of have a small apartment 
and doctors are available if they need them . 
i know a lady that lives in a place similar to that in austin . 
the only problem with these are that they are very expensive . 
and the bad thing about it , before you can get any kind of government help you have to be a pauper . 
it takes every penny . 
they want you to spend every dime you have before the government will pay for your care . 
and that 's the sad part about it . 
in colorado it 's interesting . 
i talked to my mother . 
they allow you sixty five thousand dollars and your car and your home . 
and my mother could make it on that . 
what she probably would do is disburse the money to me 
and then i would send it back to her 
so that 's what would happen . 
i think that 's what most people do . 
you just have to give everything away . 
it 's unfortunate . 
i work at a brokerage firm 
and i have seen so many people that just have to gift their belongings as much as they can each year in anticipation of having to move to a nursing home . 
it 's frightening . 
and i guess i do n't know how old you are . 
i 'm forty-six . 
we 're the generation moving into this 
and i do n't know how our kids are going to take care of us . 
i ca n't imagine . 
i 'm twenty-nine . 
we do n't have any children . 
everybody that has , has them later in life . 
my mother and my father are in their late sixties . 
so they 're not that far away . 
i also see on my generation a squeeze between looking to having to help my parents and still having to help my son because things are so rough out there job wise 
and he 's still living at home 
and i do n't know how he is ever going to get on his own the way things are . 
i know . 
you feel squeezed in the middle of having both generations , 
but something will have to change as more and more of us get older . 
luckily , if we could be like your grandmother i would love to live to a hundred and two if i were okay . 
but you see these people in their seventies 
but . 
most people are n't . 
most are n't . 
that 's the problem . 
and that 's the bad thing . 
i would hate to have lived so long . 
she lived by herself . 
my grandfather passed away before i was born 
so she lived by herself up until she was ninety , ninety-one . and just did everything , 
that 's incredible . 
do you want to go ahead 
. i went to school at madison for two years 
and they are really big on women 's rights . and equal treatment . 
and so i 've seen a lot of rallies and things like that . 
but i 'm not that liberated . 
my mom is kind of old-fashioned . 
so , you pick up some traits from her and stuff . 
but i think it 's interesting and better for women to see that there 's more of them doing men 's fields . 
i like to see that . 
and i do n't like to see women waiting on men hand and foot 
but i believe in sharing and doing things for each other . 
i do too . 
i like the idea . 
my children , i have five children 
and they 're all married . 
and i love seeing the men help the women so much . 
i think it 's great . 
me too . 
i hope that happens to me someday . 
i do n't mind doing stuff . 
i have a boyfriend 
and i got to make him dinner and stuff 
but he 'll help me do the dishes . 
i do n't want to expect to help to clean up then after . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i 've always taught my men that . 
they better clean up with their women and help them . 
and they 're good about it . 
but it is neat to see them all work together . 
they stay at work or go back to work . or whatever . 
and they 're well educated . 
and i believe we 'll see a lot more c e o -s in companies . 
they 're having a fit about how little there are . 
and i think we 'll see a lot more of upper management ? then we do now , even . 
i think it 'll escalate . 
in fact i work at a high school . 
and my boss is a black woman and has only been there a couple of months and already promoted 
and she 's very sharp . 
and the ethnic thing is a good thing now . 
me too . 
they 're moving them up 
and they 're sharp 
so you 're going to see a lot more of that in leadership i believe . 
i like to see that . 
i think it 's really neat to see and all that educated minority person who really knows what they 're talking about . 
and it 's just too bad that some people still look down on them just because of their color . 
that 's a shame . 
especially black women . 
but they would n't know what they 're doing . 
but i 'm not big on subserving as far as to the men at all . 
but i never have gone along with that even far back . 
years ago my mother was that way . 
the same . 
some people say the boys should n't have to do those jobs . the inside jobs . 
they had to do as much as we did . 
so that was good . 
same here . 
so i think that 's good . to keep the equal as far as , not necessarily by sex type thing . 
same here . 
you should be able to accomplish as much . 
and i think the attitude is a lot better towards the parents raising the younger ones now . 
you see a lot more of the mothers and all saying to the young girls you can do it . 
if he can do it , you can do it type thing . 
i see more men participating in the family things with children . helping to take care of them more . and , doing the jobs equally , 
what about politics on it ? 
i 'm not that big on politics . 
i 'm not that educated on it . 
i 'm kind of disgusted this year because i do n't see many women into the political scene 
and i really think we should have more political leaders in the women than we do and even for president and vice president this year , 
i agree with that . 
there 's nobody again . 
i forget her name now . 
i do n't know . 
but you know who i mean ? 
i know who you 're talking about . 
she took such a rough go of it . 
and their tax deal and , 
so that 's good . 
but i wish they would get some more on that . 
i did n't see any of the women in there . 
and that disappoints me . 
and right now i do n't think we have too many . in the forefront . 
schroeder 's about the biggest one in washington . 
congress woman . 
i have written this down 
do you think it 's possible to have honesty in government or an honest government ? 
you 're asking what my opinion about , whether it 's possible to have honesty in government . 
i suspect that it is possible . 
i think it probably is more likely if you have a small government unit where everybody knows everybody . 
that 's a good point . 
but other than that i think maybe it just depends on how you define honesty . 
that 's interesting . 
i had read something one time 
and it was just applying to governments in general , 
it was written many years ago . 
it said that it 's impossible to have a completely honest system of government because people who choose government for their positions are power seekers . 
and i thought that was interesting . 
it was n't just talking about our government . 
it was just government in general . from times past on 
so they 're saying that government officials would tend to be power seekers . 
and that would be a next question to ask . 
because they want to be a service to us 
or are they in there for their own gains , 
and personally i feel there 's probably some of each . 
the more honest ones who are still looking out for themselves , it may be more matter of not what can i steal while in an office but how many friends can i make while , i 'm in office . 
and how good a name can i make for myself and so forth . 
so i guess it would be like anything else . 
let 's see . 
but i agree with you , there 's a lot in business . 
i think a little more honesty in the campaigns would be , more to the point . 
i think we put too much on politicians . 
we expect them to only be there to serve us . 
if you knew what you were getting when you voted , 
that 's a problem , is n't it ? 
it 's interesting 
because i 'm taking a texas government class right now , 
it 's so easy to blame them to 
a lot of times i think it 's our own fault . 
they lie to us because we do n't want to hear the truth . 
they say you , get the government you deserve . 
if they tell us the truth , we do n't elect them especially with all this stuff coming up here lately about people 's past , 
and i do n't know why anybody would want to get under that scrutiny anymore . 
it 's hard to imagine . 
because it 's gotten 
we 're not talking about issues 
we 're talking about somebody 's personal life 
and we 're getting away from what we ought to be looking at . 
and it almost seems like in order to avoid some of the scandal , you would have to have the kind of wife that you would only find in the bobsy twins or , something like that . 
i also think it would be funny if we could know everything about the people that were in there and throw them out . 
i do n't think there would be too many left . 
you 're taking a government course ? 
at what ? 
the university ? 
it 's t c j c . 
tarrant county junior college . 
and it 's really enjoyable . 
i like it . 
and then they also ask do you think we could make laws to eliminate all corruption , 
and i do n't think we can make laws to eliminate anything anyplace totally . 
you can make laws against corruption . 
but that does n't eliminate it , does it ? 
i do n't think making laws will stop it . 
i do n't know how many laws you would have to have . 
i mean , 
they 've got laws against cannibalism 
but that did n't stop that guy in , milwaukee , did it ? 
sure did n't , did it ? 
so 
i think you can legislate 
but i think there 's no way that you eliminate it all by legislating , 
i just think that 's human nature that you 're going to have corruption in government , in business , personal life . 
actually , i think other countries may have it worse , 
the japanese government is always having some kind of a scandal . 
usually involving the prime minister or people very close to him . 
i still believe i get very fed up with government sometimes 
but when i think about where i 'd want to go this is still the best 
i 've been around to a few other countries 
and i have not found one yet that i would rather live in . 
at its worst i think we 've got the best . 
what is your favorite kind of music ? 
i have to say my favorite type of music would probably be classical music . 
same here . 
what type of music do you like in the classical area , 
or what era do you like the most ? 
i guess i like a wide range . everything from baroque through at least some modern music . 
and my wife and i these days are especially into opera . 
we 've been sort of opera fans for a few years now . 
do you go to the operas that they sing english or go to the ones that they sing other languages ? 
the places we 've gone they sing in the original languages . 
the dallas opera here normally does , i guess . 
i have n't gotten into that too much because , if i do n't know the story line and i do n't speak the language , then i have difficult time , comprehending what 's going on . 
one thing that 's helped us a lot is that you can buy a lot of these operas now on video tape 
and so we have quite a collection of those , 
and you watch them at home , 
and they have subtitles , 
so you figure out what 's going on after a while , 
and then you can enjoy it in the theater . 
but the dallas opera now has super titles on all their performances i think . 
what is that ? 
they give an english translation on a screen up above the stage . 
i did n't know that . 
that can help people like me . 
in fact , they even do that for operas sung in english , because it is hard to understand the words sometimes . 
i can understand that . 
so , i 'd say , vivaldi is probably my favorite composer . 
i really like vivaldi . 
he 's definitely one of the top of that era . 
i like baroque music , 
i like full body music with brass and winds , woodwinds , instruments . 
course i like also string instruments , 
and i have two string in my house . instrument players , 
both my sons play string instruments . 
one plays the cello 
and the other one plays the viola . 
so , i get to go to at least four or five concerts a year . 
how old are they ? 
one is thirteen 
and one is eleven . 
so they 're doing this in school , or what ? 
you 've got half a string quartet there . 
we 're on our way . 
so i try to enjoy all of it . 
since you seem to like italian music , have you ever gotten into gabrielli or anybody there in that era , the period before vivaldi ? 
a little bit , 
but a lot of the music i do n't know about as far as the titles , 
and i have to listen to it , and figure out , what i 'm listening to . 
i do belong to a musical heritage society . 
do you belong to that ? 
i do n't , 
but i think i know what it is . 
ca n't you get records through that or something , recordings ? 
you can get recordings . 
they know have them on compact disc or cassettes or l p -s , 
and they do a lot of original recordings themselves . 
i think . 
what do you call them the guys that orchestrate the conductors . 
they go to conductors , 
and they actually have them perform the music , 
and they record it . 
so , they 're actually commissioned performances . 
a lot of them are . 
or they will find out when they 're performing , 
and they will record the music at that time . 
and so it is high quality grade music , 
and , of course , now they also have a jazz section , 
and they also have a more contemporary and american composer section . 
i had heard good things about the music heritage society , 
but if i get involved in one of those things , i end up spending all my money on music . 
you can control it . 
i almost , bankrupted myself out of college as a freshman when i got into the columbia record club many years ago . 
my roommate signed me up . 
he got a bonus record , 
and i got a lot of bills . 
i see . 
so we have to watch that . 
that 's good . 
do you play any instrument yourself ? 
i play guitar and early years played saxophone . 
what type of magazines do you have ? 
we take several at home . 
i take skiing magazine , 
and i take discover magazine , and also c d and stereo review and national geographic and boys life . 
. 
that 's a good one , i like to get . 
so i take it that you like to ski . 
do you , receive a lot of information on skiing through the ski magazine ? 
i presume that i do . 
i suppose that puts me on some mailing lists and so forth , because i do get things from ski associations and things during the year . 
and do you receive discounts and things like that , 
not so much that , 
more likely to see those at a ski show or something , 
but i just enjoy reading about the resorts and where you can go and new equipment that 's come out and so forth . 
some fashions are always in there too . 
did you receive information from your skiing magazine ? 
probably not . 
we already knew we wanted to take one , 
and we just started looking around . 
i may have referred to a couple of them , 
but we went to the ski show and looked at all of the resort information , picked up a lot of brochures and just decided to go to crested butte . 
we have n't been there before . 
that sounds nice . 
it 's supposedly low lift lines . 
but i have n't skied utah yet , 
but i want to . 
you need to come out . 
i 'd like to go to sundance and park city and some of those . 
i understand deer valley is nice , too . 
deer valley , 
they are , 
it 's wonderful snow . 
how about you , 
what magazines do you have at home ? 
i am currently taking decorative woodworking , and country living , 
and we do have national geographic , 
and then we have some church magazines , 
but i really enjoy the decorative woodworking . 
i 'm heavy into woodworking and tole painting and things like that , 
so the decorative woodworking has just been a great , great help . 
does it have articles on how to do things as well as equipment that you can buy and so forth ? 
mostly they have , the ads on the equipment , 
but the whole magazine is just filled with pictures and projects that you can make yourself , 
and then it has all of the patterns and instructions that you would need to make a wood project , and then how to paint it with the tole paintings , 
and so , it 's really a fun one . 
i like that . 
that 's good . 
it 's good to get use out of one . 
i read it , 
but then they just sort of gather dust for a long period of time , 
but then eventually there 'll be a school project or something where my son will need to refer back through forty-eight back issues to find france or something or whatever it is he 's looking for . 
i 've noticed that , too , 
but they have been nice to have around . 
every once in a while they come in handy . 
i used to take smithsonian too , 
i liked that magazine 
but i just found myself not ever getting around to reading it . 
you get so many coming in , 
and by the time the next round comes in i 'm still not through reading the first round . 
that . 
scientific american comes to our house , too , 
i forgot , 
and that 's mostly my son 's , 
but i do read it , too . 
and he takes game magazine , which has puzzles and things that he likes to solve crosswords and various logic puzzles and things like that 
he likes to try that , 
does get to be a lot of paper though , 
after a while if you do n't keep them weeded out , they almost take over . 
they can do that . 
i found that they 've been fun for my little girls , 
they 're five and four years old , 
they 're just kind of getting started now . 
and so we 've found good use for those . 
mine is a senior in high school , 
so we 're kind of at the end of that trail . 
you 're just sort of beginning to think about first grade . 
it 's fun . 
i do have a boy in junior high , too , 
so we 're kind of running the gamut . 
i do n't really have a favorite type . 
i like a lot of different types of music . 
do you ? 
i have a tape collection that i like to listen to cassette tapes 
but it 's pretty varied . 
how about you ? 
i 'm very varied as well . 
i do n't think i 've ever met a type of music i do n't like except for maybe heavy metal and that . 
that 's exactly me . 
the acid rock or the heavy metal . 
even some of that i like okay but not , mostly , as a general rule , 
i do n't care for that at all . 
i do n't enjoy rap too much , either . 
that does n't appeal to my ears . 
as far as the rap goes , i think there are a few artists that appeal to me themselves 
and i like some of their songs . 
i agree , 
with the general rule , i would n't choose rap either . 
but i like to listen to what you might call pop , easy listening country western , jazz classical , 
i like like i said , pretty varied music . 
i have a couple that my husband really hates that i listen to , like billy holiday 
i really love to listen to her , 
and i even have a tape of lady smith blackman bazo 
and they 're very harmonic 
they really are . 
so , they 're interesting to listen to . 
you might try that . 
how about you ? 
most likely i would listen to jazz or classical music . 
in college i took four years of classical guitar , 
and i played in the jazz combo all four years . 
i play guitar for the jazz combo . 
so that 's where my two listening enjoyments are , 
but jazz can get on my nerves after a while . 
you ca n't just listen to it especially a lot of the deeper stuff , 
you just ca n't listen to it for enjoyment unless you 're playing it , 
it 's too , 
you have to concentrate on it , it seems . 
it just does n't do anything . 
what about the blues or something like that ? 
blues are okay . 
i tell you , 
i grew up on blue grass music . 
my dad is a big blue grass fan , 
i would n't have admitted it when i was in high school 
but , i really do like it a lot . 
i like some of it , 
as far as what they now call country western , it does n't sound like the old country music at all , does it ? 
it does n't , 
it does n't . 
some of it sounds more like pop music . 
they 've all got the real screechy electric guitars now . 
i do n't care for that . 
if i 'm going to listen to today 's country western , i have tapes of randy travis and clint black 
and i even liked jim reeves 
i grew up on him . 
or merle haggard and faron young 
that type of country western is what i like to listen to . 
asleep at the wheel . sons of the pioneers stuff like that . 
i like sound tracks a lot . 
do you ? 
it seems like you get a lot of original music that way . 
you sure do . 
think about the twin peaks and stuff like that that 's just real recent 
things like that i like to listen to . 
i like instrumental things . 
i have some spiro gyro tapes . 
they 're great are n't they . 
they 're wonderful . 
i love them . 
i have some dulcimer music . 
like i said , that 's pretty varied . 
it sure is , 
al jarreau , he 's somebody i like . 
he 's kind of jazz inspired but still kind of pop , too . 
he has a nice smooth voice . 
and what i like the most about him , is , i 've gone to see him in concert , and he looks like he 's having fun . 
some people sing , 
and they have their faced all contorted , like it hurts them or something . 
but he looks like he 's having a good time . 
he 's up there moving around and smiling like he 's happy and like all he wants to do is make the audience enjoy it , too . 
and he is real fun to listen to . 
bonnie rait , i like her a lot . 
in fact , whenever she won her big grammy 
i think it was five of them or something 
was it five , 
something like that , 
it was last year was n't it . 
last year or the year before , 
i ca n't remember , 
but i was listening to a particular radio station 
and the one d j said , who the heck is bonnie rait 
and why does she deserve five grammies ? 
do you do artistic painting ? 
i do tole painting . 
you do ? 
i really love the tole painting . 
i have n't done any of the oil or watercolor . 
i would like to learn that someday , 
but right now my passion is tole painting . 
do you do a lot of it ? 
i took one class about three or four years ago 
and i 've done a little , 
but it takes a lot of time . 
it does , 
it is real time consuming 
do you sell your projects ? 
mostly i have just given them away as gifts . 
i 've done perpetual calendars and cookie jar lids and on and on just things like that , 
but i would eventually like to make enough to sell and quit my job 
where do you work at ? 
i just work at stop and shop out there in ogden 
do you ever send any of your stuff to the boutique ? 
i 've wanted to do that but just have n't mass produced enough to do that . 
i have five children of my own , 
that keeps you busy . 
they keep me busy 
and tole painting is just something i do in my spare time 
do you cut out your own projects ? 
i have my own saws 
and so i really enjoy doing that . 
do you ever spray your projects with a base coat first 
or do you brush it on ? 
i brush it on , 
i have n't tried a spray varnish . 
i use just a wood sealer . 
i just bought a spray gun , one of those high volume , low pressure spray guns . 
and i do a lot of woodworking 
and that 's what i bought it for . 
do you ? 
but i have n't used it yet . 
that 'ud probably give you a smoother finish , would n't it ? 
what type of woodworking do you do ? 
fine furniture . 
do you ? 
that 's why i bought the sprayer is to finish my projects . 
that 's my worst part of my woodworking . 
but it 's hard to finish it . 
but spraying does put on a nicer finish . 
that is interesting . 
what kind of equipment do you have ? 
for woodworking ? 
let me see , 
table saw , scroll saw , band saw , lathe , routers , 
and -t 's about it . 
it sounds like you 're really into it . 
that is nice . 
it is . 
i just have a scroll saw and a jig saw 
and i am really anxious to get a band saw and a router . 
the band saw is really nice . 
i have an inca . 
i do n't know if you 've ever heard of those . 
but it 's nice to have the right equipment . 
that makes it easier , does n't it ? 
have you sold any of your furniture or just , 
mostly i do like you do , 
give it away as gifts . 
but , making my own furniture . 
that 's interesting . 
did you take classes to learn how to do that ? 
just in junior high 
and then i just kept on through high school and then got my own equipment , kept up with that . 
so yours is mostly just a hobby , too , then . 
that is interesting . 
i really would love to go take a class in woodworking and learn how to . 
i do n't know if i necessarily want to do furniture , 
but mostly just do more , 
the woodworking . 
for your tole painting . 
so , it 's fun . 
i guess i 'll let you go now . 
they come on , 
we 're supposed to talk until they come on and tell us . 
they do ? 
so this is my first one . 
you 're probably a veteran at this . 
it has been really fun . 
i 've enjoyed this . 
like i say , i 've made a couple of calls to texas , and just talked to all different kinds of people 
so i think you 'll enjoy doing it . 
it 's fun . 
sounds fun . 
where do you buy your tole painting paints at around here ? 
there 's a shop in roy that i really love . 
and it 's there by the , copper mill restaurant , 
used to be the hayloft . 
we live in roy 
is it on nineteen hundred ? 
let 's see , 
i 'm trying to think of the name . 
i know where fifty-six hundred south is . 
i do n't right off . 
is that ben franklin then ? 
ben franklin , 
how do you feel about the viet nam war ? 
i guess it 's pretty deep feelings , 
i just went back and rented the movie viet nam 
i saw that as well . 
got some insight there , to kind of help me put together the feelings . 
i really appreciated the whole english class where the , fellow just would n't do it , 
the guy 's gouging your eyes out , 
what are you going to do ? 
what for him to finish me off . 
were you ever in viet nam 
i was kind of an in-between , 
finally drew a high draft number , 
and you ? 
i was much too young , 
i was born in sixty-seven , 
both my brothers were draft age , 
but neither of them wound up going over , which , i think they were very happy for . 
personally i just went in limbo . 
i had a passport and was ready to go out of the country or join special forces , 
either one . 
i just did n't know . 
so do you feel that it was worth what we did over there ? 
just a second . 
. mark what was that again ? 
do you think , the investment in lives and money was worth it ? 
i totally agree with that . 
what effects do you think it 's had on our country ? 
downside . 
the says we should go into the grief that 's there 
and presidents have always avoided that as a country . 
so it 's pretty serious , really , 
lot of things that are n't being addressed . 
i think that 's pretty typical of the entire involvement over that nothing was really addressed , 
we announced that we were going to war , 
gulf of tonkin resolution 
and was it a dolphin or a torpedo . 
you remember that ? 
i vaguely remember we had a , spy ship torpedoed or something . 
only it was foggy 
and finally president johnson said , they were n't really sure whether it was a dolphin or a torpedo . 
is n't that something ? 
it seemed to me that bush was going to extraordinary lengths to prepare the country for war . 
mark i 've got to go . 
we 'll see you . 
i guess our five minutes are up according to me . 
are they to you ? 
i was n't really keeping count . 
but i guess , 
do you have a p c ? 
i have a macintosh s e thirty . 
a lot of my friends are into macintoshes . 
i have a i b m p c myself . 
a two eighty-six . 
i 'm probably eventually going to get a three eighty-six . 
what do you use yours for mostly ? 
mostly word processing applications and just as a dumb terminal . 
but i think eventually i 'll start using it for spreadsheets and things like that . 
what do you find that you use yours mostly for ? 
i do a lot of word processing and spreadsheets and data base , 
i 'm just starting to get into a little bit more communications now . 
i 've just today ordered a fax modem 
you do n't have to make a hard copy that way . 
are you using windows ? 
i think i 'm planning on moving up , getting a three eighty-six before i move up to windows although i do like the graphical user environment . 
it 's getting to be more and more like a macintosh . 
i just want it more for multi tasking , which i suppose is also like a macintosh . 
i 've never used an i b m actually . 
i used to use just an apple two e , which of course looks pretty primitive now . 
that 's what i learned a lot of languages on , was an apple two e in my high school . 
but i do n't have any real programming capabilities on my mac right now . 
i do n't have any compilers 
i use it in my business . 
what do you do ? 
i do consultation and testing of various kinds for english as a second language programs . 
are they based on a , other language , 
a lot of the english as a second language classes will have people from all sorts of parts of the world , 
and the teacher just tries to teach english through natural understanding . 
that 's the kind of thing i 'm working with exactly . 
you seem to be better informed than the average person on that . 
it was just when i was , i worked for the community school , 
and they had a english second language class 
and it always seemed strange to me that all these people that spoke english not too well , and spoke a variety of different languages were all being taught at the same time . 
i imagine it 's a lot harder on a computer because you do n't have as many cues , 
you do n't have hand gestures and things like that . 
what i use a computer for is to write materials that are later printed , though . 
most of the stuff that i do is not interactive 
and i use it for data analysis on testing , 
to see how well they retain the vocabulary and things like that . 
actually , just , item analysis , statistical analysis of the tests , 
when you write a test you have to look at some data from it and see how the different questions are performing and find out which ones are discriminating well and which ones are n't find out how reliable the test is , 
you try . 
so it involves a lot of spreadsheet use . 
i would imagine so . 
so what were you doing when you were using an apple two e ? 
i was doing some of the same stuff , but doing it more slowly , and with smaller files . 
i ca n't believe i 've got five megabytes on this one now 
and on my two e i had a hundred twenty-eight k . 
it 's amazing how in the general user community the expectations have just grown so much . 
i remember my first computer was a t r s eighty with four k on it 
and then i started playing with apples , 
and those had forty-eight , 
or if they were really great they had sixty-four k . 
the original apple had forty-eight i guess , did n't it . 
i know that in my school they had a bunch that had sixteen k on them , is all , 
i remember that there was one game that i played that required forty-eight k 
and there was only one computer that had forty-eight k on it at the time . 
i 'm not sure about macintoshes , 
but i know i b m -s , you buy a megabyte at a time . 
that 's the low end . 
the s p thirty goes up to eight 
but i have n't upgraded it quite that far yet . 
i think probably when i get system seven i may have to do that and get possibly another hard disk . 
i do n't know . 
they say that system seven uses a lot of memory . 
i imagine . 
so you have eight children . 
what type of things do you do as a family to spend time together . 
we spend a lot of time outdoors jogging , bicycling going to the park some time watching v c r movies , 
generally cheap things . 
we know how that goes . 
with lots of kids you do n't have lots of money for recreation . 
that 's right . 
that 's fun . 
so let 's see , 
some of the things we do together as a family , we like to play games a lot , 
and you may think this is funny , 
but one of our funnest games we like to play together is hide and seek , 
and we just have a hoot playing hide and seek when it 's dark in our house , 
and that is so fun . 
the kids just get a crack out of that . 
we do like to go to the park , too like your family . 
we do n't do a lot of vacationing . 
have you taken a lot of vacations together 
most of our vacations are to go and see grandma and grandpa . 
we get an occasional one or two day thing 
but most of them are going and seeing grandma and grandpa . 
where do they live ? 
in arizona . 
so that 's a bit of a drive for you there . 
so you like to go there for the holidays 
we do n't go very often for holidays . 
generally we try to get all of our kids back home for the holidays and let grandma and grandpa come and visit us . 
what are the ages of your kids then ? 
they range from twenty-four to five . 
so you have some in the nest and some out . 
that 's right . 
how old are your children ? 
ours start at twelve 
and then they go down to four . 
i think the hardest thing for us is to find leisure time activities that all of our kids can enjoy together with the age span that we have , 
i bet , 
the older kids love playing board games and that kind of thing 
but the young kids do n't understand it 
and so they get real frustrated when we try to do that , 
and then if you want to play something on the little kids ' level , then the older kids get real bored , 
and they want to do something else . 
i can relate to that . 
do you feel that the current trend in families spending time together is a positive one or a negative one ? 
i think it 's improving , actually . 
we had an interesting experience the other day . 
we have pretty much a routine that we spend , 
we do n't have our kids play with other kids on sunday 
and we just kind of keep them at home 
we were at a soccer game saturday , 
and our next door neighbor was there , 
and somebody came up and asked if their daughter could spend saturday night at their house 
and she said , sunday 's our family day 
and we keep our kids at home so we can spend time with them . 
that 's good . 
and i think those kinds of things are happening a lot where we are right now . 
i think it 's gone to one extreme where the families were just running all different direction 
and i think more people are interested in spending time with their kids now . 
i think so , 
and i feel like president bush has mentioned quite often , that we are trying to become a kinder and gentler nation , 
and it does begin with the families at home 
and so i 'm a firm believer in that , too . 
i think a lot of people are panicked , how kids are turning out and how things are going for kids and realizing they 've got to start doing something . 
that 's true . 
we see that a lot out here in utah , 
and hopefully it 's going to spread . . 
utah 's a lot better than texas . 
do you have a lot of large families out there in texas , 
very few . 
very few . 
you feel like you 're in the minority ? 
when we tell people how many kids we have they look at us like we did n't have good sense . 
out here in utah , five is about the average , 
average . 
my wife and i were in utah until we were about twenty-four . 
never been back , since then , 
but , we have kids up there now , 
so we get up occasionally . 
i have some relatives out there in texas , 
in fact my mom 's out there in texas right now , in dallas , spending a month with her cousins , on their ranch , 
where in dallas ? 
aberdeen ? 
is that close to dallas ? 
i do n't have any idea . 
i 've never heard of it . 
must be a little town . 
i guess it 's out there , clear out . 
they have a ranch that has five hundred acres , 
chuck , do you have any pets there at your home ? 
i do . 
and what kind do you have ? 
i 've got a male siamese about a year old here . 
i live alone in an apartment except for the cat . 
how about you ? 
we have a cat , 
he 's probably a good two years old , big , old , fat and sassy tabby . 
. how 's the disposition of your siamese cat ? 
they 're just aggressive by nature 
and he 's been neutered and declawed , 
so he 's an indoor cat , 
so that kind of calms him down for the most part . 
how about yours ? 
he has been really aggressive especially towards my little girl , for some reason . 
he 's been so mean to her . 
and you say you 've had him how long ? 
we 've had him for about two years 
two years . 
and he was so mean to her right after we first got him . 
we had him neutered , and declawed , 
and now he bites her . 
he ca n't scratch her any more , 
he bites her . 
does he bite her enough to draw blood ? 
he has a couple of times , 
but he 's a very possessive cat . 
he loves my son , 
it 's his cat , 
and he 's the only one that allows him to touch him or pet him or love him 
and he 's so funny , 
he just follows my son around just like a dog . 
he wo n't even let my son shower . 
he meows and wants to get in the bathroom 
and , while he showers , it 's so hilarious . 
so he 's quite a animal . 
i guess . 
as long as he does n't get too aggressive with the daughter he 's all right . 
you would n't want him to carry her off or something . 
we did actually take him to the pound a couple of times because we just could n't have him being so aggressive towards the girl , 
but he seems to have mellowed out a little bit , 
and we do keep our daughter away from him . 
were it not for my son , the cat would not be in this house . 
is that the only pet that you have ? 
it is , 
we tried a dog about four years ago , 
and we ended up with malamute and some other kind of mix . 
anyway it ended up being just a huge , huge dog that ate us out of house and home . 
we 're in a house , 
but we 're in a subdivision where we really ca n't allow the dog , 
i see . 
we could n't allow him to run free , 
so , he was just chained up all the time , 
and it was unfortunate . 
have you tried any other pets ? 
i live alone in an apartment , 
although i 've heard rabbits are pretty good 
i saw something on c n n or on cable here a while ago that showed some people that had rabbits in apartments and in houses , 
especially when they 're young when they bring them in 
and do they just paper train it or something ? 
i guess . 
i guess , 
and i would imagine that they do n't have many more than one to start with , either . 
rabbits are darling . 
that would be fun if you could get them trained . 
otherwise they 're pretty smelly . 
that 's right . 
did you see the dog show , 
we do n't have cable . 
i see . 
they have the westminster dog show , 
i think it 's in new york city at the gardens 
and they had that on last week , 
and that 's really kind of something to watch , 
it 's on two or three nights for maybe an hour or two 
is that right ? 
and some of the weirdest animals you ever want to see in there . 
some of them are really beautiful , too . 
i 'd be , interesting to watch . 
you live in utah do you ? 
elton . 
we live out here 
it 's by ogden . 
it 's north of salt lake city , utah 
and we really love it out here . 
it 's kind of country . 
we 're only about ten minutes from ogden . 
so , we 're kind of country but not too . 
do you ? 
i 'm getting so many calls to texas . 
this is the very first one i 've talked to . 
i 've been doing it for about two weeks 
i do n't know . 
i think the budget is really out of hand right now , 
and especially in this election year , i think that there ought to be at least some conversation about what we are supposed to do about this . 
it kind of seems to me that everyone 's offering their token little tax cut program when it 's just such a bad time for it . 
and as you said , mostly they are token cuts . 
especially what , for instance , george bush is offering . 
the ninety-seven cents a week . 
ninety-seven cents a week . 
that 's really not going to do a lot of good to your average middle income person . 
another ninety-seven cents , 
you can buy a coke or something for that . 
mostly it 's not actually a cut , 
it 's just a cut in the amount withheld . 
i do n't see this mumblex changing my lifestyle a whole lot . 
that ninety-seven cents really is n't going to do it for me either . 
i have n't really heard much of what the other candidates have said that have made a lot of sense to me either , 
especially the democratic candidates do n't seem to be coming up with much that really sparks my interest as far as maybe that could do something to affect our budget at this point . 
in retrospect was it mondale or dukakis that said i 'll tell you right now i 'm going to raise taxes ? 
i believe it was dukakis 
it was dukakis , 
i have a lot of respect for him . 
that 's better than george bush who came out and said , no , 
i will not 
read my lips , or whatever 
and then ten months later he said , , i ca n't follow through on this . 
but it seems to me that the budget is so out of hand , 
and especially now that they say , the cold war is over 
and we 're supposed to be getting a peace dividend of x number of billion , trillion dollars a year . 
i 'd really like to know where that money is actually going to go , 
because , in my opinion , i do n't think i 'm ever going to see any of this so-called peace dividend . 
i 'm not really in favor of large government social programs , either , because i feel that they waste money , also , 
but with this peace dividend , it seems like you could set up some kind of public works projects like they had in the thirties , or whatever . 
i think that would be a great idea . 
it would help unemployment greatly . 
and in that way we could really focus on building the infra structure of the country . 
we have hurt ourselves incredibly last fifty years in the cold war . 
and there 's no way that we can ever really recover from the state that we 're in right now , unless we focus on the infra structure , 
and i surely do n't hear anybody saying that right now . 
i agree totally . 
it just seems so ridiculous that it was allowed to happen . 
i 'm in college right now , 
so am i . 
where do you go ? 
i u . 
i go to georgia tech . 
i had the required political science class a couple of years ago . 
and one of the things we discussed was how the budget situation just got so out of hand . 
i think it was in the tax year of eighty-one , 
ronald reagan basically said i 'm going to give this much of a tax cut to the tax payers and , created this ludicrous budget that he knew , that the congress would not in their right mind pass 
and the democratic congress realized that they were going to lose a propaganda war removing the tax cut further cut the taxes and , created the huge deficit that year which moved us into the trillion dollar deficit . 
you just have to wonder what they 're thinking in washington . 
it 's just like they 're playing chicken with a loaded gun . 
it 's a loaded cannon . 
they 've got trillions of dollars to spend every year , 
and they , in my opinion , do n't do a very responsible job of spending that money . 
what really bothers me is it just seems like if anyone were to say i 'm going to raise taxes and cut the budget and we 're going to have to do some unpopular things he would n't have a chance of getting elected . 
it 's kind of like rome and the bread and circuses thing where people just want to have whatever will make them feel good , right now . 
for the moment , 
and that 's what really is getting me about what george bush 's stand on the budget is right now is that he is saying , i am going to give you this ludicrous little tax cut so that you 'll be happy come november , and you 'll elect me again 
and then i 'm going to go on and just forget everything that i said 
or it does n't seem that it 's going to make much of a difference . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't think george bush will make the american people happy with ninety-seven cents a week . 
not at all . 
i just do n't think it was a well thought out incentive . 
how do you feel about crime in the city ? 
you say you 're from atlanta . 
actually i live in the city 
and i guess it is a concern of mine for my own safety . 
i live in atlanta also . 
that 's right . 
. i think it is bad in certain areas , 
however i think , the area that i live in the crime level is not as high as it is in other areas of the city . 
i think it seems that there 's certain areas where the crime is focused . 
what do you think can be done about the crime in the city ? 
and they 've had some impact , but not a tremendous amount , 
and probably they need to try to increase community involvement , that sort of thing , i think . 
i probably agree with that . 
particularly in some of the housing projects that tends to be where a lot of that crime is focused 
and they 've got to do more than just having cops there . 
they 've got to kind of change the way people think about it . 
that 's probably true . 
so do you think atlanta 's as bad as most other cities ? 
i 'd say it 's probably in the top ten in terms of crime . 
it 's nowhere near as bad as new york city for example . 
probably not as bad as detroit . 
i do n't think it 's as bad as l a either . 
i do n't think we have as much of the gang problem as a lot of the other cities have . 
that seems to be true . 
if you 've ever been to new york city 
and as you walk through the street on a given evening , you can see crimes being committed . 
it 's that obvious . 
i do n't know , 
i came to the conclusion also that if you are walking in a downtown area where there 's a lot of crime , a lot of that 's going to just keeping your senses about you and trying not to look like a victim . 
that 's true . 
with a big stick 
and do n't be looking around like you 've never been there before and you have no idea where you are . 
do n't walk down an alley 
just try to keep yourself out of a bad situation 
but 
there are times when you ca n't avoid all that 
and then you 're kind of on your own . 
have you ever been mugged in atlanta ? 
the only thing i 've ever had , was i 've had my wallet lifted 
but that was in a more of a setting where there was a number of people around , 
i was much younger at the time 
and kind of a couple of people , they just took it from me without me knowing really and kind of passed it off , so i did n't know who had it . 
i 've had that happen , 
but that 's about it . 
i 've been pretty lucky about getting mugged . 
i think i 've only actually seen one actual robbery with a gun 
and that 's been about the only potentially violent crime that i 've seen in atlanta . 
and that was just a guy running out of a store that he just robbed . 
i 've had my car stolen , 
so maybe that counts . 
where was that ? 
was that downtown 
that was up near cumberland mall area . 
it 's actually cobb county , 
but it is atlanta 
metropolitan , 
and there 's a lot of car thefts in that area . 
i 've known some people that have had their cars stolen . 
and , about half the time the a p d seems to recover them in various states of disrepair . up on blocks . 
my friend had a v w rabbit , 
and when he got it back his dashboard was sitting in the front seat . 
it had been wrecked 
and some superficial type damage , 
but they did n't strip it 
so i got it back . 
than most . 
so does insurance pay for the body damage , 
or was that all there was , body . 
it was about three grand to put everything together . 
they cracked the steering column of course , to steal the car . 
you crack the steering column 
there 's a pin in there that you can pull on these g m cars 
and you can start it up , basically pretty easily . 
so how do you know this much about stealing cars ? 
. how 's your products been ? 
i really have n't had too many problems . 
seems to me that everything that i buy goes bad just after the warranty runs out . 
i hear that one . 
have you had any lately go out ? 
i 've had a dryer , an ice maker , a microwave , all three , 
unfortunately i bought them all three at the same time , when i bought my new house , 
and i really do n't have any recourse , 
so i had to call and have them all repaired and that . 
it was a hassle . 
so you did n't get anything , 
even , all the warranties were out ? 
the refrigerator warranty 's still good , 
but the ice maker itself , passed its three years , 
and it was three years and two months . 
you 're kidding . 
we just moved into a new house , too , 
so we had to buy all those , too . 
watch out . 
i buy a lot of wood working equipment through the mail 
and i bought this paint stripper where they advertise that it 's nontoxic and such , 
and when you get the product it ends up being toxic and all these warnings . 
i just ended up using it . 
but , that 's about the only thing i 've had gone wrong . 
i usually have pretty good luck with appliances , 
it was within two days that all three of these stopped working , 
and the ice maker had to have a new pump , 
that 's incredible . 
and the microwave had to have some kind of something i ca n't even pronounce , 
the dryer had to have a new heating element , 
so it was almost three hundred dollars for all three of them . 
and they all went out at the same time ? 
within two days of each other . 
or two days . 
it was n't a good week . 
i was pretty mad . 
and plus the place that i 'd bought them all had gone out of business , 
but still they were through that retailer , 
so i do n't know if i could have taken it to another retailer or not . 
it 's frustrating . 
but i did n't have to worry about all that , because they were n't under warranty . 
so . it was a call to the local appliance dealer who came out and fixed them all , 
i seem to have a real bad trouble with electric hair dryers , blow dryers . 
they go out a lot ? 
i 've had two or three of those go out . 
one was under warranty , 
and the other two were n't , 
other than that t v -s and things like that , i have n't ever had any trouble with . 
i do n't think products are getting much better though . 
i 'm in the manufacturing 
and make automotive air bags , the safety air bags . 
that 's interesting . 
at morton international , 
it 's changed a lot with the manufacturing environment . 
we test everything after each assembly process , 
and so our testing is pretty thorough , 
do you test each individual one 
if you 've got ten , you test one , 
and by the test results of the one you assume that the other nine are okay ? 
we test every one electrically . 
i think they test four or five a day , actually exploding the air bags 
but we do test during the assembly product , , 
after we assemble each part of the inflator or what explodes the bag , we check to make sure it 's there after we install it , 
so , each assembly process has an inspection right after it 's done , 
and then we do electrical tests on them during the process , 
that 's something i 've never had to use , 
i 've never been involved in an automobile accident , 
so , luckily that 's a product that i have n't had to test . 
but i think it 's a great idea . 
seems like all the good logical ideas take forever to come about 
they do all the testing that we have to do through the government , 
it 's incredible how much testing they have to do . 
i do n't mind spending the extra money on the car even if they pass the cost onto the consumer , because it just seems like a real worthwhile thing . 
i guess we 're going to describe job benefits , 
and so what next to salary do you rank , is the most important job benefits ? 
i would say the medical group insurance area as far as covering medical costs for yourself or family members . 
does your company have good benefits in that regard ? 
i work for a public school district 
so it 's different than a company where most companies fund almost the entire thing , 
where the school district does the employee must pick up a greater figure in the way of costs . 
but overall i 've been pleased with it over the years . 
i think the biggest frustration is because of the cost of insurance going up every year , our district has had to change companies , 
or now we 're on a managed care thing , which has stressed a lot of people out although it has not disturbed me any . 
i see . 
how about yourself ? 
my medical coverage is with an h m o 
so , in my opinion , that 's bordering on a health clinic , 
but it seems to be a good way to maintain costs and still provide a good amount of coverage . 
our district did that for the ninety-one and the ninety calendar years , 
and i was in the h m o , 
they usually sign a contract or something 
and i did have surgery last summer 
and i paid ten dollars when i went to see him that first day , 
and i 've never seen another bill , 
so i have to say it really works . 
but , again , i was fortunate because my doctor agreed to be in it . 
if you 've been going to a doctor for ten years or something and he elects not to join , it can be very stressful for those people . 
that 's right , 
i 'm fairly young myself , 
three years ago is when i first got into full time employment 
and at that time i immediately joined the h m o , 
so the only doctor i 've kind of consistently had has been through the h m o , 
and for me it 's worked out real good . 
but if you have a family and , everybody 's gone to different doctors it is hard to give up somebody who you feel knows you and your body and just has all the medical history 
and you feel comfortable with it . 
i 'm sure it would be very stressful 
and , my husband and i have just elected that if that happens , i will go and just pay . 
you can continue to go to your own doctor 
but your benefits are not as good , 
you mentioned you work for a school system . 
i work for georgia tech in the research branch , 
and i guess another one that i rank up there high is the kind of job flexibility and time off i enjoy as a benefit . 
i do too . 
are you talking about spring break 
getting a lot of breaks between quarters and that , and having a lot of vacation . 
i 'm not a teacher , 
i am a secretarial executive assistant , 
but i do n't think the teachers could stand the stress all year long frankly . 
they want everybody educated , no matter what it costs , 
in two weeks we have spring break , 
and i do n't know who looks forward to it more , the students or the teachers and the staff . 
what do you do there ? 
i 'm not actually on the teaching faculty , 
but we have a large research organization associated with the university , 
and that 's who i work with . 
and we 're given a good bit of flexibility in what we do . 
we can kind of pursue our own interests in terms of the research areas that we study . 
that 's good . 
i would think that that type of employment , one day you might be really tuned in and the next day a little luke warm or something 
and it 's good that they allow you that . 
we do have to work the day , 
but we do get many days off , 
and we all look forward to it . 
that 's the only reason i work there , is that my children now have graduated from college 
but at the time , i worked there because my hours and days were the same as theirs 
and i 've just continued to stay there . 
are there any things that you 'd like to see changed in terms of the benefits ? 
martin , do you do any exercise ? 
i do . 
i like to play basketball and weight lifting . 
those are probably the two main things i like to do . 
so those are more or less indoor sports . 
how 's the weather out there in georgia ? 
in the winter , typically it 's probably too cold to go out and do things like tennis . 
i like to play tennis in the summer time or in the spring , fall , 
but in the winter it gets pretty cold . 
so it 's mostly indoor sports in the winter . 
how about yourself ? 
i 'm on a exercise program . 
i 'm riding my aerodyne bike half an hour every morning , 
and i 'm just about ready to up it to up to forty-five minutes a morning , 
and i feel like that 's been a real nice exercise in the winter time . 
it 's kind of kept me from getting cabin fever and has seemed to be a real nice aerobic exercise . 
do you do any anaerobic type , weight lifting or weight training type exercise ? 
first of all i 'd like to get my weight off . 
i 'm about fifty pounds overweight , 
and so i 'd like to get the weight off , 
and then i 'd really like to get into that . 
and my husband and i have a , aerobic video that 's called the firm . 
i do n't know if you 've heard of it , 
but it 's an aerobic video with , not necessarily bouncing around and jumping up and down , 
but you 're using weights , 
and that is the most incredible aerobic workout i have ever done . 
it 's really fun . 
it 's similar to aerobics with weights 
but it 's like low impact aerobics , just with weights . 
are you familiar with step or bench aerobics ? 
i am , 
but i have never done it myself . 
have you done that ? 
i have . 
that 's the in thing . 
that 's the big thing ? 
at first it was just regular aerobics , 
but now bench or step aerobics have kind of taken over . 
so how is that ? 
they call it a low impact aerobics , 
and it 's supposed to burn off more calories at the same time . 
and from when i 've done it , it does give you a real good workout . 
but only thing i 'm concerned about is potential for injury to your knees , 
that and movement of going up on the step , 
that could create a problem . 
they seem to think that it wo n't , 
but you never know . 
do you have healthy knees ? 
i think my ankles probably are my main weak point . 
but , i 've kind of taken care of that . 
i wear high tops and then also a support ankle brace which is very stiff 
and wearing that i have n't had any problems in the past year or so . 
that 's good . 
you sound just like my husband . 
he injured his ankle about seven months ago playing volleyball , 
and he 's just had a heck of a time getting that ankle healthy . 
so that 's what he does , 
he wears his brace and his high tops 
i injured mine so many times that rehabilitating became quite easy . 
it would only take three or four days 
and i could play again on it because after a while you just learn how to rehabilitate yourself to play that way . 
so how successful is your exercise video ? 
it is amazing how fast you take off the inches 
and i 'd like to do the forty-five minutes a day on the bike for a week , 
and then , every other day i 'd like to incorporate the video , and then the bike on the other day . 
but , it is really amazing how fast the inches come off , 
and the muscle builds real fast . 
they recommend doing the video without weights for the first month 
and then after that you can just start with your five pound dumbbells , and then build up to your twenty-five pound dumbbells 
and then you 're just doing repetitious exercises throughout the whole video 
and it 's a hour long video , 
so it 's a good workout . 
it is , 
i really enjoy that , 
so i 'm looking forward to losing this weight and being firm and healthy . 
it 's quite cold . 
this one has been quite mild . 
we could have been out walking throughout the whole winter , because really we only had about three weeks of snow on the ground . 
it was quite chilly , 
how do you get most of your current event information ? 
i 'm going to school right now , 
and while i 'm working , i do n't get a chance to read the paper a lot , 
and i do , like to do other stuff with it . 
while i 'm at work sometimes , on the computer network i read the news sometimes , 
and that 's kind of helpful . 
you keep up on what 's going on . 
that 's true , 
my roommates and stuff people around me talk about it . 
and the people i work with are pretty up-to-date on that kind of stuff , 
i 'm a housewife , 
i have three kids , 
and so i get most of my information probably through just the news at six o'clock and then talking with people and just hearing what 's going on . . 
do you watch major network news , 
or do you watch the macneil lehrer hour ? 
just the regular channel 
just channel eight . 
that 's our channel here 
that 's the eyewitness news . 
where i am channel eight 's public t v , 
so it 's kind of different . 
it 's kind of appropriate right now because of the election stuff going on , 
but it seems that they kind of get to throw their opinions into how they report on the news . 
and i think even in the elections , they choose who they 're going to follow and who they 're not , 
and basically if a candidate can get them to follow , then the news will kind of publicize his name . 
i do n't think that the way i get the news is the right way to get it . 
i think you get a very lopsided picture of what 's going on . 
you just ca n't get a full picture of their message unless you have time to sit down and probably read something on it . 
and the news , too , it just does n't cover that many stories , 
it just covers your basic violent crimes and your catastrophes with weather and stuff , 
but other than that , you really do n't know what 's going on . 
i will read our current letters that come out on elections 
and , i guess i do read that , 
and i do study who 's running in our area , 
and i do study what 's going on in the economy . 
and , i guess i do read other magazines too , to get my information . 
i subscribe to science news , 
and that 's real good because it gives a brief summary of , or the updates of what 's going on in science without getting into a lot of detail that would bog me down that i would n't know about 
but other than that i do n't really read , 
i do n't really subscribe to anything else . 
i used to read every month a reader 's digest 
but now i guess i just have friends that clip articles 
of course , when we were in war , i read up on that just a little in the newspaper to find out what was going on . 
but a lot of the times , i wish i had the time to read all the stories in the newspaper , 
but i just ca n't seem to find the time . 
if they put it out in a video , or on , not a video but a cassette tape or something , where you could just listen to it i would do that while i was doing other things . 
i remember back during the war , everyone here at work always had the radio or the t v on , because they were going constantly with that stuff . 
they even did a story on our news here in texas on what people wanted to see more of , 
and people said that they wanted to see more on outside of texas news . 
we just do n't want to hear every night all the killings that went on here in dallas 
if they reported every violent crime in atlanta it would probably take the whole news hour . 
i guess we 'll get pretty good news coverage in a couple of years when you host the summer olympics . 
in the newspaper they have a section every now and then , on the olympics , 
and they 've got a countdown , 
it 's sixteen hundred days or something . 
i know , 
we 're trying to get tickets to it right now . 
that 's going to be crazy that time of year here . 
i guess people want to hear about it . 
also big in the news right now is the braves , because they 're in spring training or whatever 
and they did so well last year . 
they spend a long time on sports , 
and i think that that 's fine , 
i would like to see more time spent on other things . 
i do n't know , 
they way they do the newscasts , i wish they kind of separated it , 
if you wanted to watch one thing you could turn to some channel for it 
but i do n't have cable . 
i think that one advantage of having the unanimous verdict is that in a criminal case you want to make sure that you do n't convict someone who really should n't be convicted . 
definitely . 
and i think that a unanimous verdict helps to ensure that . 
i guess maybe one drawback of it is that if you have one juror who is very unreasonable in some way , that you would have a problem that you would n't convict someone who maybe should be convicted . 
have you ever served on a jury before ? 
i have twice . 
it was a pretty wild experience . 
what sorts of cases were they ? 
they were just small time cases where trailers and banks were involved . 
so were they criminal or civil ? 
they were civil . 
they were n't any criminal . 
what was the verdict ? 
did the jury have trouble reaching a decision ? 
the jury i think it was ten to one on the jury , because they only had to have eleven people 
and the one changed his vote at the end . 
so it became unanimous after they turned it in 
and then he changed his mind after they turned it in 
but it then became unanimous . 
. but since it was a civil case it really did n't matter ? 
you just needed a majority ? 
what was the other case ? 
that was also civil ? 
the other case was just traffic , 
and it was seat belt law 
and it did n't even hardly go through , 
did n't really even count . 
i 'm a college student 
so i have n't been a jury eligible age for very long 
and i did get one summons actually at one point , 
but i declined it which i 'm able to do because i 'm a student , because it was a very bad time . 
you learn a lot going to the juries like that though . 
i would like to do at some point , 
but , i have n't . 
one thing that i think maybe is a problem is i think that the criminal jury system works pretty well now , 
but i wonder if maybe in some civil cases it does n't work as well . 
i would n't think that it does from what i experienced in them , 
it did n't turn out the way i planned it the way that i would think that it would go . 
you thought it turned out pretty well ? 
jury was unorganized 
and it just was n't organized enough for me . 
i 'm not used to it not being organized , 
and i just assumed that it would have been . 
so it was just kind of a zoo 
someone had to figure out what was going on ? 
that 's about what it was . 
. that 's interesting . 
did it work out pretty well in the end ? 
did a couple of people sort of gradually , sort of assume sort of a moderator role in the trial 
they picked one person , 
and then he finally moderated everything and made it turn out the way it should have . 
so it did end up working out pretty well ? 
it ended up working all right . 
it 's not just a matter of , did this guy rip off this guy , 
and it 's just a matter of interpreting a contract , 
it 's sort of a matter of sometimes getting into very technical issues , 
and i wonder if the system works adequately in educating the jurors about whatever issue is under discussion . 
i do n't think that they educate them enough to really know what 's going on . 
in the case you were involved in , you said it was just sort of a bank matter of some kind . 
the bank was suing them because they went to get the trailer which was seemingly their property . 
it was on his property . 
so the deal was that he had borrowed money from the bank to buy it , 
and he had n't made the payments . 
so they came to get it . 
and then when they came to get it it was on the landlord 's property 
and he would n't let them take it off . 
so they were suing to get it back . 
and it was a double wide , 
so they 'd already taken it apart . 
so they left it there 
and then when they came back to get it a couple of days later it had rained and got all in it . 
so they were suing him for the money , 
i guess the recording has started now . 
have you ever served on a jury ? 
i served , 
i was in the air force , and served on a court martial board a couple of times , which is very similar to a jury . 
a lot of the same rules apply . 
have you ever served on one ? 
i finally served on one last year . 
i 've been voting for years , 
and i could n't figure out why i had n't been called yet 
and i finally was . 
so it was an interesting experience . 
i was kind of boring . 
was it civil or criminal ? 
it was municipal court 
and i was in the pool for a couple of weeks 
i see . 
so it was a combination of criminal and civil , 
most of the time we spent sitting around in the jury room and getting to know the other potential jurors 
and then , it was always exciting when we got called to go , because then we thought we might be able to do something else besides just sit in the jury room . 
did the judge hand down sentences 
or did you folks do that ? 
the judge did . 
i had a hard time getting seated on a jury . 
i 'd be questioned for empaneling the jury , 
and they kept dismissing me . 
course they do n't have to give a reason , 
they want to get the best mix for their case , 
so they ask all kinds of wild questions . 
that 's a science in itself . 
i kept getting called up for drunk driving questions , 
and i think part of it was they did n't like the fact that i do n't drink any more . 
i see . 
because you 'd probably be too puritanical 
that was probably it , 
although in my case i might have been more sympathetic with the person who got caught , 
i do n't know . 
were the sentences that the judge handed out what you thought to be fair , 
if you were deciding , do you think that they would have been different . 
i was never there for any sentencing . 
i finally got empaneled on one case on my next to the last day , 
and we got into the jury room to decide the case , 
and there was one guy on the jury who announced to everybody that he did n't need to deliberate , because he 'd already decided that the guy was not guilty , and he would never vote for guilty . 
so they appointed me jury foreman 
and i did n't think that going in without deliberating allowed us to reach a verdict , 
so i told the judge that we were unable to reach a verdict because we could n't get one member of the jury to deliberate . 
so the whole thing had to be tried over again . 
i bet that made him happy . 
it was funny . 
i do n't know , 
i did n't like not being able to deliberate . 
i wanted to vote guilty for the guy , 
and the other people were kind of mixed 
so the guy had to go through the whole thing all over again . 
cost him a lot of money , 
i 'm sure . 
how many members were on the jury ? 
was it a six or twelve member jury ? 
it must have been six . 
that 's kind of curious to me . 
i did n't realize until the wayne kennedy smith trial a few months ago that they had six member juries . 
i thought that it was always twelve men tried and true , so to speak . 
but apparently for some crimes , it 's permissible to have six people sit in judgment . 
getting to this unanimous thing , whether a jury should be unanimous or not , in a court martial case it does n't require the jury to be unanimous . 
it 's a simple majority rules . 
let 's see , 
is it on capital crimes that they have to be unanimous 
probably on capital , 
i do n't know , 
the two that i were on had to do with drugs 
the government really failed to prove its case , 
and being fair to the person , if the government does n't prove its case , no matter how you feel , you have to go by what 's offered as proof , 
and we had to acquit him in both cases . 
it was too circumstantial ? 
it was in some of the critical things , like special investigations , at one time in one of the cases had videotaped this person , 
all they could do was testify , 
pretty good , 
pretty good . 
we 're talking about drug testing in the work place . 
drug testing in the work place . 
. i 've been tested a few times , just before employment . 
but that 's about it . 
i 've never had random drug testing . 
we have random drug testing in my business , 
but i 've never had to do it . 
they started that about a year ago , 
and i think it 's mostly for the field people that drive trucks and heavy machinery , that kind of stuff . 
but they have done some testing around our office , mostly after lunch , looking for people drinking beer and stuff at lunch time , 
they do with alcohol . 
they do it with alcohol ? 
they 'll check for alcohol . 
i thought it was just marijuana or cocaine . 
once you start doing that stuff , you 're sort of stuck into checking for the whole thing . 
. that 's interesting . 
what type of field of work are you in ? 
i 'm in the oil business . 
in the oil business . 
i work in the office , 
so it 's pretty safe environment . 
i work in the automotive air bag industry , where we make the safety bags for the cars , 
and we work around a lot of explosives . 
that sounds like kind of an important job to be straight on . 
i 'm all for it , because the type of environment i work in they 're working with explosives , 
they have safety features with each of the explosives they use , 
but still , it can be dangerous . 
i agree . 
i think that under certain circumstances , especially when you 're working in high risk industries , where you can really hurt other people , that you need to have that kind of stuff . 
as long as it 's not abused random , 
as long as it 's random , and the individual 's rights are protected , i do n't have that big a problem with it . 
do they fire them , 
this is it , 
this is where i start having my problems with my company . 
i work for a private company , 
and the policy is something like if you turn yourself in as having a drug related problem , then you 're eligible for company counseling . 
but if they catch you , if you test positive for a controlled substance , then you get fired . 
so , it 's sort of one of these little catch twenty-twos . 
it 's probably the same thing . 
it 's one of those things that you read once , 
and then , if you 're not worried about it , you just forget about it . 
that 's right . 
but i know , they do have counseling , and that they do give you a second chance , 
but i 'm not sure if it 's if you get caught or if you turn yourself in . 
our company 's a little tougher on the second chance . 
if they 're going to give you the opportunity to turn yourself in , then they ought to go out of the way a little bit more to help get you rehabilitated to get back at your job . 
but when you 're a private company , the rules do n't always apply . 
it 's hard for me to evaluate it because everybody i work around is in an office environment 
i guess i have n't run into anybody that 's been a problem . 
so i guess it works much like any lottery , 
everybody 's got an equal chance to get picked . 
i 'd rather have that than say this week the a -s and b -s are going to be in 
and next week , c -s and d -s are going to come in . 
you could time it just right . 
i know one employee , i know , when i was working with , he had alcohol on his breath , 
and i 'm not sure if our policy covers that or not . 
that 'd be just as dangerous . 
especially around equipment , machinery and stuff . 
. that 's true . 
i 've gone out and had a beer at lunch time , but not to excess in any case . 
do they give any limits on alcohol , 
i do n't remember , to tell you the truth . 
i do n't think they do . 
they must , 
that just shows you how much i 've been paying attention , 
because i really do n't know . 
i 'll have to go into work tomorrow and ask . 
you can take some of that testing a little bit too far . 
they did an unannounced drug sweep of their company 
it was not only drugs , 
i myself am not in favor of drug testing in the work place except in very specific examples such as transportation workers , as in air traffic controllers , bus drivers and that kind of thing . 
i do n't really think that it 's too many , 
i think it 's a severe invasion of somebody 's privacy to say , we 're going to look at your urine and then decide whether you 're worthy of working for us . 
i really do n't see that that 's a very valid thing for a company to say , 
and personally , i do n't think i would work for somebody if they were going to reject me on the basis of what 's inside my body . 
do you think it 's okay for a company to reject somebody knowing that they 'll take drugs ? 
suppose they found out some other way ? 
i think the problem here is that a drug test does not necessarily imply that someone is taking drugs or not taking drugs . 
there can be false positive results , and that sort of thing . 
i do n't think there 's any definitive this person is taking drugs , 
so we do n't want him here . 
like i said , some industries , though , i think it 'd be very necessary , 
i would n't want any air traffic controllers high or anything like that when i 'm flying in an airplane . 
but i find it to be pretty offensive that it 's such a big deal . 
i think it 's a whole trust issue . 
i just ca n't see it . 
but , have you ever been in a situation where you were drug tested 
i have been . 
i was very offended by the whole process . 
it 's very humiliating , 
and i 'm not speaking in favor of drugs or against drugs , 
it 's a pretty personal thing when somebody says i want to look at your urine before i 'm going to talk to you . 
i had it during a job interview , 
and i just thought it was dumb of the company , at a point where they were trying to convince me to want to work for them to do this , 
and i 'm just i 'm not even going to think much about it if you 're going to treat me with this much respect even before you 've gotten to know me . 
it was a job interview 
and then you had a physical , where you were drug tested , 
the other side of it is , besides its being an invasion of personal privacy , it 's my bodily fluid 
and i do n't really want you to look at it , or something pretty basic like that , 
just to the fact that i do n't know that it is a company 's business to regulate what its employees are doing when they 're not at work . 
during the eight hours , during the day , when they 're supposed to be there , i think they have every right to say these behaviors are acceptable 
and these are not , 
but when it enters into what they 're doing when they 're not at work , i find that to be fairly offensive also . 
like you say if it 's not a critical kind of job where someone could get hurt , then really the employer ought to be judging you on how well you do your work rather than on these other factors . 
and if you are doing drugs and it 's causing a problem , then they 'll notice it for other reasons . 
that 's exactly right . 
i 'm a big supporter of personal freedoms and personal privacies , 
and i think that it just moves down along a line that i really would find bad if most people went down that line into regulating employees ' lives outside of work , 
we 're not going to hire you if you smoke . 
i can see how they can say in the work place you do n't want them to smoke , 
but when somebody leaves work , i do n't think that it 's the employer 's right to regulate their life style at all . 
do you think it should be illegal for an employer to do this 
i really think it should be , except in the specified industries or jobs , because there are certain things where it 's just vital that a person is clear minded at all times . 
and other than that i do not think it should be allowable . 
i think it should be illegal for them to want to do that . 
it 's kind of the big brother syndrome , 
anything like that just kind of scares me . 
even though i do n't think i 'd work for a company that did that , i sort of want to defend an employer 's rights in addition to an individual 's rights , 
but an employer , really has the right to hire someone on any basis they want to 
and if they say they do n't want smokers , i sort of feel like an employer should have the right to decide whether they want to allow that . 
i pressed the button one , 
so we 're recording right now . 
i 'm sorry . 
that 's okay . 
i 'm bill from raleigh . 
and i 'm melanie from harrisville , utah . 
another one from a different state besides texas . 
bill , we 're talking about family reunions . 
have you ever had to plan a family reunion ? 
it was n't really a planning one , 
but it was a birthday 
and i brought a lot of family together then . 
and how did you feel it went ? 
it went pretty good . 
i 've worked in hotels , 
so i kind of know how to do these things . 
i used to . 
all this planning and getting together and such . 
let 's see what else . 
usually when we have kind of our family reunion it 's my grandmother 's birthday , 
she comes from a big family . 
she has seven sisters i think . 
they show up and all their kids . 
let 's see , 
she has four sons and two daughters , 
and they show up and all their kids , 
so it 's a pretty big reunion , 
it 's about two hundred people , maybe . 
what did you find was most helpful in planning the birthday get together ? 
probably the biggest challenge was getting a place where everyone could eat comfortably and everything . 
i guess probably the most helpful thing was that for the rent , we rented a rescue squad building or something like that . 
and everybody that showed up donated some money for the rent and for soft drinks 
and so nobody really got stuck with the bill . 
that 's good . 
and each person in the family brought a dish , or something . 
and then did you have a main meal , 
it was just pot luck . 
it was kind of pot luck . 
everybody brought their specialties , i guess you would say . 
show off a little bit . 
and of course my grandmother 's food was , as always , gone first because she 's such a great cook . 
how old is she ? 
she 's eighty-six . 
is she pretty spry , 
she looks probably like she 's in her early sixties 
and if she did n't have arthritis , she 'd get around better than me as a matter of fact . 
that 's neat , that she 's in good health , at that age . 
my nickname for her is honey woman . 
that 's what i call her . 
that sounds fun . 
i had a real challenge of planning a family reunion a few years ago , 
we sent out five hundred announcements , because our family is quite large , like your family there . 
and so that was a real challenge , 
and i was president of our family reunion for two years , 
and i was n't very at that duty , for two years in a row , 
but i found that advance planning was the key to success . 
also one thing that 's helpful , 
and i do n't know if your family 's spread out or whatever 
but all my family lives in the same county 
that 's wonderful , though . 
but it 's just kind of like get on the telephone 
and , it 's so and such days from such and such date 
and everybody just shows up . 
that is helpful . 
our family ranges from australia to boise , idaho , and , all kinds of places . 
i would say you 're spread out , then . 
we are . 
my immediate family my parents and my brothers and sisters , i guess we 're the ones that have the gypsy blood or whatever , 
because my dad was in the army 
and we 're pretty strung out all over . 
but since they 've moved back to carolinas , we still are the only ones do not live in yantsen county . 
i live in raleigh , 
and then my parents live in greenville , 
and i have one brother and his wife live in greenville , and another brother that lives outside of fayetteville . 
so we 're spread out , 
but everybody else is centralized in , my home town , waynesboro 
nobody moves away except us . 
they must really like it there . 
i got out as soon as i graduated . 
just this town is too small for me , 
you want to start ? 
i might as well . 
one of the things i 'm very concerned about the air pollution , is the ozone layer issue . 
i used to own a heating and air conditioning business and handled lots of different types of freons , 
and that rather bothers me that i was in effect contributing to the delinquency of the environment , so to speak . 
that 's stuff we never even thought about three years ago . 
and one of the reasons they fixed up the freons eleven , twelve and thirteen , was because they were inexpensive , 
they could be made and lots of it , 
and its properties were great with the machinery , 
did n't have to have lots of expensive machinery to get your heating and cooling cycles to work . 
have they stopped that practice now ? 
course there 's a tremendous number of refrigerators and freezers , both commercial and residential utilizing freon twelve , 
and of course , the new cars starting with nineteen ninety-three will not have freon twelve in their systems . 
but there 's the ton of after market machines , and et cetera , et cetera . 
and that 's got me very highly concerned that that 's going to be quite a while before we can undo this . 
that could spawn several good industries and help , pull us out of this recession , 
but you got to have people that can earn a salary to pay for this conversion . 
so i see us in somewhat of a catch twenty-two unless the banks or industry or the government go together and come up with a way to have us as a part of the unemployed society be able to be gainfully employed again converting all this freon twelve stuff into the new nonpolluting compound . 
how many families own a refrigerator , 
and how many people , especially here in texas , own cars and trucks with air conditioning . 
there are people that have a thriving business that do nothing but heating and air conditioning on automobiles and trucks , 
and the only reason i did n't get into that more , when i had my little business , was because most of your air conditioning on vehicles tend to be greasy and dirty to the n-th degree 
and that 's a polluting type deal too , is the excessive petroleum products in your engine bay and so forth , 
and the dirt and grit and those two mixed together with water really make a mess . 
i hate to see a car going down the street , or even a truck or bus for that matter , that 's putting out a lot of dark smoke , 
and i know there 's a lot of pollutants we ca n't even see coming out of cars , 
but that bothers me . 
most of the time when you see the busses with the diesel those are carbon particles , and carbon dioxide and water vapor , 
diesel fuel is burned in the diesel engine 
it 's burned so completely , that you do n't have any nitrous oxides or oxides of nitrogen to form by virtue of the very combustion process of the diesel engine , because diesel oil is not very volatile where gasoline , if you leave a little pail of gasoline out before long it 's gone . 
diesel is going to be around , because it does n't evaporate easily , 
its latent heat is high , 
but it 's slow burning at , normal pressures . 
that 's why your diesel engines have such high compression ratios as the air is heated by virtue of the compression process to one to nineteen or nineteen to one ratio 
i see . 
bill , 
bill , 
have you done much camping ? 
i 'm a scoutmaster in boy scouts . 
and i every month camp at least one weekend 
and during the summer we camp two or three weeks a year . 
that sounds good . 
i 'd say i camp quite a bit . 
you do . 
do you have a lot , 
you do n't have mountains in texas , do you . 
where do you find places to camp ? 
we do a lot of canoeing when we go camping 
and we also carry all our equipment with us 
and so we canoe down the river and then , sleep on the river on one of the sand bars and then get up the next morning , cook our breakfast , and go down the river again . 
that sounds adventuresome . 
how about yourself ? 
i 've done quite a bit of camping , mostly with my husband and i . 
we have five children , 
and so we have found that camping with the little ones is n't as enjoyable as just when we go ourselves . 
so we 've tried to get out once a year and go on a anniversary camp out , 
and we have gone up into the mountains and not necessarily roughed it , 
but we have just found it just real enjoyable to be alone up in the mountains . 
that 's good . 
and , then our boys are old enough now , 
they 're twelve and eleven , 
and so , they 're involved in the scouting 
and they do a lot of camping with the scouts 
and last time our one twelve year old went to the scout camp for a week , 
and so this year they 'll both be going , 
and so that 's been real enjoyable for them . 
what kind of camping do they like best ? 
do they like it where they have tents 
and do they cook on stoves ? 
actually i remember , they have taken the heavy cast iron dutch ovens and done their cooking there over the fire , 
and i do n't think they 've taken the stoves . 
last year they camped in tents , 
and this year i believe they will be in tents also . 
course i imagine it gets cold in parts of utah . 
it does n't get very cold in texas , 
so lots of times we do n't even take tents . 
is that right ? 
we just use trail tarps . 
and what does that consist of ? 
they 're very light weight 
and we use them when we go backpacking . 
so we go backpacking fifteen or twenty miles , 
they 're not very heavy 
so you carry them with you , 
and they 'll keep you dry or whatever . 
we have to take our big huge , heavy sleeping bags , and lots of tents 
and , i like to sleep on the air matresses . 
my bones are getting so old , 
so i like to sleep on the matresses . 
so , have you had any encounters with wild animals or anything like that ? 
in fact last month we went camping , 
we saw a lot of deer in the morning and the afternoon 
just deer everywhere . 
and we were with boy scouts , 
so of course we do n't want to go hunting . 
but we got to see a lot of deer out and about 
of course , we see smaller animals all the time , 
and one thing that is a big concern in the evening , at night is make sure that all the food 's put away and so forth because we have armadillos . 
do you know what armadillo is ? 
they 're covered with a heavy armor type stuff , 
and possums , and raccoons . 
and we have those creatures down here that they like to go hunting for a midnight snack . 
and so that can be a problem if you do n't put all your equipment away . 
but they wo n't necessarily attack a human or bite you or anything . 
they will if you attack them . 
but most time they run away from you if they see you 're up 
but they do n't have any problem walking right by you if you 're asleep . 
that sounds a little less fierce than bears . 
should begin . 
i can begin this , 
basically i work for honeywell in minneapolis 
and the benefit program we have here is really quite good . 
i 'm pretty pleased with it . 
they cover just about everything , vision , dental , medical 
you name it , 
and for me this is the first job i 've had where they 've covered that much , 
so i 'm pretty satisfied myself . 
what 's your situation ? 
i work for the university of new hampshire , 
and our benefits package is n't quite as good in some ways . , 
overall i 'm satisfied with it . 
we do n't have the vision care , 
we do have the health care and the dental . 
are you a professor there ? 
i 'm on the professional administrative and technical staff , 
and effectively i run the telephone switch at the university of new hampshire . 
i see , 
so probably the main thing i like about the benefits is the , very generous vacation time and sick time . 
no doubt . 
we get fifteen days a year sick time , 
and right from the day one when you start work , you get twenty-four days a year , time off . 
that 's good . 
i used to work with the army research institute , 
and being a government organization you got quite a few holidays off . 
but here you do n't get that . 
you maybe get two or three a year . 
unless you have some vacation time or some sick leave or whatever you kind of have to finagle your way around to get that time . 
so , that 's kind of a drawback i think . 
but . i do n't know . 
what do you consider most important in terms of the different benefits ? 
i think the health care , of course , is an important , and has to be the single most important benefit 
and the rates that we keep paying seem to keep increasing , 
i 'm a little disturbed about that , 
but i think that 's a national trend , 
and i do n't know what the solution is to it . 
it 's bigger than just the benefits part . 
i do n't know if you saw on twenty twenty the other night , they basically reviewed the oregon plan toward nationalizing health care and that kind of thing . 
it 's kind of an interesting plan . 
it 's kind of cold though . 
they 've essentially made up a list of all the different medical maladies that you can have and then basically made a cutoff , 
about six hundred and eighty-seven and below will not be covered by , subsidized health care , 
and the ones above would . 
so it 's kind of like drawing this line 
and if you have it 
if you do n't , you 're kind of out of luck 
but it was kind of an interesting show . 
i think you 're right , 
i think health care is probably the pressing one , 
but i 'll tell you , i do n't mind having dental , 
sometimes dental costs can be just about as expensive , if not more , 
and i know historically a lot of companies carried dental as a rider along with the medical 
but i 'm not sure that 's widely followed any more . 
i 'm not sure , 
how does university of new hampshire handle it ? 
we have two different plans that we can subscribe to under dental depending , 
and the cost between them is very little . 
i think it costs me something like five dollars a month for the dental plan . 
but it pays a substantial amount . 
the examinations and , checkups every year , or every six months are free 
and it covers the bulk of the dental expenses . 
is that the same for both professors and also staff and administration , 
is that generally across the board , do you think 
it is . 
the benefits plan is different for what we call operating staff , which are considered to be clerical personnel , accountants , things like that as opposed to what they call the p a t staff , which i belong to 
i think the health and all that and the dental is the same for everybody , and the retirement plan . 
but the main difference is in the way sick time is accrued and vacation time is accrued . 
for the operating staff it 's based on how long they 've worked there . 
that determines how much vacation time they get . 
i 'm kind of interested because actually , that 's the route i 'd like to take when i finally get my degree is to teach in a university . 
i 'm a doctoral student in florida right now 
that 's interesting . 
that 's one of the things i 'd like to think about is what kind of benefits they would cover and things like that . 
college programs belong to this t i a a c r e f retirement fund . 
is that right ? 
karen . 
you 're first . 
i was just going to say i think one of the biggest thing for me is room for advancement not to get in a dead end job . 
and plus , for me , it 's medical and benefits and dental . 
they 're also important . 
i guess one of the differences i see is working for a university there is room for advancement , but not so much so , in quite a highly unionized environment and then also in the administrative association 
so there is a progressive path , 
but not being in the commercial sector , the motivation is n't there for a lot of people really , 
are they pretty much train for a specific job 
and what i hired for and then just very little variation from that . 
somewhat that , 
but then also there just is n't the ability to in one sense have a broader scope for rewarding people for their performances . 
so that 's in our situation where we are dealing with an institution , 
it 's a little more difficult to recognize an individual 's performance 
and i suppose that 's maybe a disadvantage of being in a larger institution , perhaps somewhat even with the business . 
but i agree the medical benefits and those kinds of things are one of the big pluses of working for a large organization and also the security aspect for long term employment , 
that 's interesting though . 
because i do n't know if that 's necessarily the case anymore . 
you mean job security ? 
job security , 
that use to be a couple of years ago , 
but i do n't know if it is so much anymore . 
in fact , we just had a lay off in november . 
some people had been there a long time . 
we are seeing that here as well . 
in some of the large oil companies . there has been massive lay offs . 
i think it 's probably a major distinction between institutions and the corporate world in institutions are slower to react both on the growth side and then also on the reduction side where the businesses , we need to cut back , that 's what we do . 
no doubt 
and institutionally , like here at the university if there is a cut back it 's not where it 's needed , 
in one sense for us , it 's where it makes the least noise which means it 's often the lowest support type roles . 
expedient , 
that 's exactly it . 
where it cuts back the most . 
i think that 's one of the things too . 
you get too many management people . 
it 's very easy . 
and it 's very easy for them to say , this is the best way when they really are n't aware of what all it took to get the work done . 
and then they wonder why it does n't get done in the same amount of time . 
those people are n't there anymore . 
because it 's support people that are providing the speed for it . 
what else do you think is important ? 
that 's maybe the majority of the importance , i guess . 
because my perspective is from an institution , 
there is not much incentive for innovativeness because the limitation for reward is very severe 
but if you 're in the corporate world there is considerable motivation for innovation , 
although the more complex your structure the less difficult it is to kind of carry some things through 
but i think it 's a long term type of process where in a small organization things can happen much more quickly and so you can see the reward of the efforts . 
i was going to say it 's more personal for one thing . 
you probably have a better team cooperation , or team playing , atmosphere . 
probably , 
where as in a bigger corporation , i think you 're just a number . 
you end up being your own person 
and if you do your job fine and if somebody else is messing it up then that 's their problem 
i think you would be more willing to either help that person or help it get accomplished . 
it becomes the organization instead of person being a part of the individual themselves . 
how do you feel about trial by jury ? 
i feel very uncomfortable with trials by juries recently . 
in what way ? 
in that it seems to me that they are swayed more by emotion than by evidence that 's presented . 
i have very little regard for the law , presently practiced . 
are you talking about with criminal or civil suits ? 
i was thinking primarily criminal cases . 
that 's a concern of mine . 
i would feel more comfortable in many cases with judges . doing the sentencing . 
i like the idea of juries of your peers in that you get personally more than one person making a decision . 
my question ? 
i 'd agree with that . 
too often i think they are not 
that 's definitely a problem . 
and when you are selecting a jury and you are doing it partially if not entirely on the basis of which color representation you have that is a matter of concern to me too . 
i think that in such cases they are not really looking for unbiased people , but rather for biased . 
now i happen to know several judges 
and there is one that i would feel uncomfortable . 
but the other two would give either the plaintiff or the defendant the full benefit of the law . 
and i guess that 's what i am concerned with . 
i , guess i definitely agree with you , 
the same crime gets unequal sentences . 
this is very true . 
i think there is more of an ability for selecting two different juries that would most of the time come up with , the same idea versus whether he is guilty or innocent 
but , i think there would be a large variation in trying to gage the severity of the crime and an appropriate punishment and have that measure stick across the board . 
and you do see such uneven sentencing evidence of it in the newspapers and such where it would appear the crimes were very similar 
but one individual got twenty-five years 
and the other one was sentenced to life . 
of course a lot of that 's also the ability of the defendant to get a good lawyer . 
is n't that the truth ? 
my mind has gone blank 
it 's , othello . 
you know where he says kill all the lawyers . 
i agree . 
but , it 's taken me a long time to understand that lawyers are concerned with the law and not with justice as novices tend to think that attorneys care about justice . 
i agree with it 
they will admit to you that they do n't have the benefit of , allowing themselves to believe their clients that are guilty 
it 's more of the game plan of how do they convince the judge or jury through argument . 
and they are very effective too . 
i have been involved just slightly in a case where i know the person is guilty 
but his attorneys gotten him off . 
the city has dropped their charges against him because the attorney has presented enough evidence of doubt to convince the judge . 
so i do n't know . 
this is a little bit of the subject , 
but one thing that i really dislike also that 's new is that i have heard that there are federal sentences , 
jackie on taxes , i guess i would have to say , that my opinion is that i do think americans are paying too much in taxes . 
what 's your feeling about that ? 
i agree . 
i think taxes are high . 
where you live do you have a state income tax and a sales tax both ? 
in new hampshire we have no , what we call broad base taxes . 
no income tax and no sales tax . 
we tax business eight percent , 
businesses are taxed eight percent 
and we have what we call the five b s . for our taxes . booze butts , cigarettes , beds hotel room tax bellies , a meal tax and bets , gambling . 
so we do have a very low tax rate , 
but combined with the federal income tax . i think that americans generally do pay too much in taxes 
i agree 
i 'm still a student 
so i only work part time , 
so i get a check back 
that 's nice . 
from taxes 
nice to get a refund . 
it is , 
but it 's not much . 
do you think that for whatever taxes we do pay that we are getting value for it ? 
my opinion of taxes is that we just send money to washington or to the state and they say they are going to send some back , 
it 's like one arm giving the other a transfusion . 
you know what i mean ? 
i should say one arm giving another arm a transfusion through a leaky tube 
because , there 's an old saying in amongst taxes and politicians that there 's a fly paper effect 
there you go . 
and that is that money tends to stick where it lands first 
and when you send it to washington or send it to your state capitol a lot of it stays there 
and not that much comes back to you . 
i do n't know . 
do n't seem like they are doing much with it , 
there 's plans there 
they have nice plans 
but , they do n't always work 
and then they try to raise taxes more 
but taxes get raise 
so . i do n't know . 
i 'm not really into politics 
i do n't really understand it 
it does seem that the more taxes that are raised the more the politicians spend . 
it 's almost like they will spend as much as they 're allowed to collect . 
there is an interesting proposal that 's been going around now for a few years of having a flat tax . ten percent or thirteen percent . 
there would be no figuring . 
you would have a certain amount , 
you would take you total salary 
those who made under a certain amount would n't owe any taxes , 
and then there would be a set amount for however many dependent you have , 
and you would just pay a flat tax . no exemptions , no deductions or anything else after you figure up who 's in your family . 
and that would eliminate a lot of the bureaucracy in the i r s 
and it would eliminate all these loop holes that the fat cats get away with . 
the could be nice . 
i 'd like to see something like that . 
i think it would be fairer 
and it would put a lot of the tax attorneys our of business 
and i am sure they will fight it tooth and nail , 
but i really think a flat tax would be a lot fairer for all americans . 
it does n't seem right that somebody that makes twenty-five or thirty thousand dollars pays four or five thousand dollars in taxes while somebody that makes two hundred and fifty thousand dollars might pay nothing in taxes . 
it does n't seem fair to me . 
it is n't , 
there is not much out there that is fair , 
that 's for sure . 
i will agree to that . 
i think your taxes in wisconsin are pretty high . if i am not mistaken , are n't they ? 
i mean for your state . 
do you know what your state income tax rate is ? 
twenty percent ? 
i have no idea , 
my dad does it all for me . 
you just pay it . 
you 're like my daughter who is in college down in massachusetts 
and she works as a waitress 
and she is attending college full time also 
and she sends her taxes to me 
and i figure them up . 
she really has no idea . 
she gets a refund check 
how do you keep up with current events ? 
usually catch the news in the morning . 
what channel do you watch or what station ? 
n b c . 
that 's the one i watch . 
i usually keep up with t v . 
i do n't , 
i am a student 
so i really do n't have much time to read the newspapers and stuff 
so i get a lot of stuff through the grapevine which really is n't too great sometimes . 
i usually tend to just rely on t v again just through the grapevine just to know what today 's stories are 
and i usually go out an buy a newspaper if i 'm interested in any particular one . 
the radio does n't really have much news sometimes . 
the stations i listen to are just mainly music . 
i think you pretty much have to listen to all news station to get any news at all . 
do you think that t v is pretty accurate . 
sometimes do you think it gets pretty commercialized 
what i really do n't like about t v , especially local news as compared to national news is just it seems like everything is very spoon feed 
and it 's more like the news shows is now an entertainment show like a sitcom or like the news , because they would always have the wonderful investigative reports is your kid 's bus driver smoking crack , on the way to school ? 
they mainly go with popular topics just not basic news . 
also i have the observation with the press that any stories that i had any first hand knowledge of that i see in the press which only happened ten times in my life first thing or anything that actually had more than just a blurb about it . that the press has managed to just mess up some aspect of the story 
it 's something wrong . 
looks like they 're going more for ratings than for actual news . 
i think probably the best source of just plain journalism would be newspapers 
i am from a small town too here in texas 
and so local news is really who grew the biggest tomato 
the farm report . 
farm report and oil reports . 
that 's pretty sad 
or who killed who . 
also i have found that newspapers probably are n't as bad as television . 
read the story and just found it so incredibly watered down 
in dallas , i do n't know if you heard about the killing where the guy drove into luby 's 
was that like he started shooting people in this cafeteria or something ? 
and the news covered it hours after it happened 
and then three days later this local news station was using as their promo to promote themselves . 
i just thought that 's kind of cold , 
i have seen that happen lots of times . 
channel x gives you the best coverage 
we were on the scene with our team players 
they were showing these dead people 
and they were showing people crying 
it did n't seem like there was much coverage of the story , but just the play on people 's emotions . 
and everything . 
i 've pretty much stopped watching local news totally 
even the national news i just find it to be very watered down , 
very , 
what did you think of the coverage of the war ? 
i found it very one sided . 
did you ? 
it just seemed to lack any sort of debate . 
not saying that we actually should have been there or should n't have been there , 
they kept just showing how great we were doing 
a lot of times the news coverage showed all the guys who did n't get hurt coming home and all the big parties 
if they were going to show that why did n't they show the guys who got really hurt and everything . 
and i really think that in the involvement that the press states that the military basically sets the press , 
what kind of pets do you have ? 
we have one rotten cat . 
one rotten cat . 
it 's my son 's cat . 
i heard a laugh in the background . 
that 's the boys . 
they know i do n't like it . 
do n't you like cats ? 
i like cats . 
this cat is more like a dog . 
he 's a one owner . 
he likes one boy in the family 
and that 's about it . 
that 's odd . 
how does he treat the other people ? 
just stays away or runs usually . 
but he 'll follow my oldest son around . 
when he is in the house , he will come up 
and he 'll jump on his lap , 
but if anybody reaches over to pet him or whatever , he 'll just kind of look at them like what are . 
did he raise him or something ? 
we bought the cat for him 
and so he 's been the one that spent the most time with him . 
but i 've never owned a cat like that . 
i 've had cats growing up all the time 
and they are usually either that way with everybody or friendly to everybody . 
that 's interesting . 
so , it 's a weird cat . 
. we have a mutt . 
a mutt . 
we named it hooper because that 's where we got it from . 
a lot of people drop off abandoned pets at her house 
and she use to work for a veterinarian 
so she would neuter them give them all their shots 
and we saw an ad saying it was free , 
so we went down there and picked it up 
and it 's been an excellent dog , 
but it 's my first dog i 've had 
and we got it because my wife stays here at home alone while i go to work 
so that 's mostly why we got it . to keep her company while i am away at work . 
is that kind of your child right now ? 
right now it is . 
it 's kind of good training . 
we have been trying for kids , 
but right now we have n't had any , 
but it 's pretty good training really , keeps her on her toes . 
have you had dogs before ? 
my brother has . 
we did n't do a lot with them . 
i never felt like it was mine or anything , 
you could n't do anything . 
when i was growing up we always had a dog 
and we had mostly mutts , 
not mutts , but mixes like one or two mix 
and those dogs always seem to be the best dogs . 
that 's what we found . 
ours is like a cockapoo . 
i think it 's half cocker spaniel and half poodle . 
but , it 's a really good dog . 
i do n't know , 
they seem to listen better or something . 
is your cat a purebred ? 
it 's just an accident . 
from my son 's friend down the street . 
their cat was an outside cat and just end up with some kittens 
would you ever want a dog in the family ? 
i would . 
we had a dog that was a mix between an alaska malamute and a labrador 
and i should say a pup 
and he was just too big for our kids when we got him 
and when we moved into our house that was the first thing we wanted to get was a pet 
and it was a dog that we 
and he was just too big . 
the kids could n't handle him 
and i was still going to school 
and my wife was working 
and i was working 
and so we just did n't have time to really train him 
so he was too big for the kids to handle , 
so he was just tied up to a post 
there is a place out here called shorties lane out here in harrisville 
i guess it 's kind of an animal shelter 
but he just takes a few the animals in 
and some he destroys 
and some he keeps . 
so we took him up there 
and he ended up keeping him . 
cause he has had him for six or seven years . 
we saw him just about a year ago 
and i thought that sure looks like that pup we gave away 
and so we asked him about it one day 
and he said yeah , 
he 's been the best dog i 've ever had in my life 
just goes everywhere with him . 
he would have been a great , great dog . 
he just needed a lot of time . 
how do you feel about gun control ? 
i do n't think that guns should be outlawed 
all you do is to get guns 
but i do n't really know unless they do just outlaw them , how you can prevent that . 
it varies from state to state . 
do you even know what the procedures are now ? 
but , it 's kind of like if you want a gun you can get a gun , especially if you have the money to pay for it . 
and i know that in a lot of states you could be just released from a mental hospital the day before be obviously insane , 
but have your legal right to get a gun . 
. i did n't know that . 
that 's pretty scary . 
so do they want us to say where we feel about it in rating it one to ten . 
i 'd probably say about a five . 
that 's where i would probably be . 
seems like it 's a good safe number to pick . 
i do n't really know how they can really enforce the laws any better 
because i do think that some people need them for protection and stuff 
and i can understand them wanting to have them , 
but then again it 's just all those nuts out there . 
if you are looking at country where they do have a lot more gun control , like england and places like that the amount of violent crime has decreased by so much . 
it has ? 
in comparing per capita murders are incredibly lower than the united states . 
so it 's really kind of a complex problem . 
is the crime that bad there in atlanta ? 
i 'm not really sure how bad it is . 
i 've not really had that many problems with it , 
but apparently we were ranked pretty high up . 
i know dallas is . 
i think we have been ranked in one of the top three for murders in the last few years . 
i do n't know if dallas is in the top three 
but . do you own a gun ? 
i 've thought about getting one . 
i probably would n't get a hand gun . 
i would probably get a shotgun . 
just for protecting myself from burglar type thing . 
i do kind of live in the downtown area . 
somebody is not going to break in , steal it , and use it to mug someone . 
that 's true . 
i just do n't understand these people when they decide they 're going to buy a gun to protect themselves . 
they are probably going to miss the person 
and they 're going to shoot through five wall , and hit someone . 
a shotgun just really struck me as being a real good defensive weapon . 
you can sort of point it somewhere in the direction of whoever . 
when i first moved to dallas , i moved up here by myself 
you pretty much stop them . 
then the actual shot does n't go that far , 
a wall will stop it pretty much . 
and my dad gave me a gun 
but i never did go out and practice with it enough to feel comfortable with it 
so i finally ended up giving it back to him . 
i said i do n't want it . 
i do n't want to be responsible for it because if you 're not going to teach me how to do it and if i am not going to be responsible enough to go out and learn , i do n't need it . 
that really does scare me . people that have guns 
but you pick up the gun and point it at the person 
that person rushes you . 
and they get it from you . 
and you 're pretty much dead because you 've just told the person that you 're about to kill them then 
set them off . 
and , you basically made it clear to the person that you are a real danger to them 
and then if they manage to get the gun from you their first reaction is going to be stop you . 
that 's why i ended up giving it back to him . 
i thought i do n't want it if i do n't really know how to use it 
and i just did n't want the responsibility . 
so . did you hear about that killeen massacre or whatever ? 
did it happen at a cafeteria or something ? 
it just makes you wonder how people get guns . 
i would be scared selling guns to people . 
frank , what type of budget do you or your family have ? 
i do n't know that we really have a budget . 
i have a set amount that i save . 
actually there is a way . 
my wife gets so much to do shopping with every couple of weeks 
and we allot each of us so much money per week for our personal stuff , gas , and things like that 
and besides that i have a set amount that i save every month . 
that sounds like probably a tighter controlled budget than what i have . 
i am single , 
i do n't know if that 's an excuse for not having a tight budget , 
really do n't need to . 
i do n't need to . 
i am the only that i have to keep track of 
so it makes it a little bit easier . 
that 's right . 
and also i try to save a certain amount each month as well 
and i try to have an idea of what my expenses are 
and i am pretty consistent from month to month 
and whenever that changes i am pretty well aware of it without actually having to maintain a budget for it . 
i am in my fifties now , 
but before we use to have a very strict budget , 
i had four kids 
and we planned out how much we were going to spend for food and how much for this and for that . 
kind of anticipate how much things were going to be . 
i guess one interesting aspect of the budgeting i do now is that i kind of fence off areas of my check book . 
for instance , there are certain things that i know come up every so often . 
every six months i have to pay car insurance . 
every six months i have to pay my taxes . 
so i take a set amount . 
i 've got a money market account that i do a lot of saving in 
and i also have got a checking account besides that , 
but , what i do on my money market account , my taxes for instance which amount to an average of two hundred and twenty dollars a month . i will just take two hundred and twenty out 
and i put it in parenthesis . 
i take it out of the right line total and put it in parenthesis in there and let it build up . 
every month i add two hundred and twenty dollars to it . 
then when the tax bill comes in i 've got that much set aside . 
and i guess that 's a way of budgeting . 
i guess i kind of do a similar thing . more medium or longer range . 
i just have maybe a targeted amount that i will save for . 
probably within a year i would like to buy a new car . 
so , i kind of have an amount in my mind 
and i am making every effort to put a little bit away and increase the amount that i need for a down payment or whatever . 
cars are definitely something that you have to figure into your budget . not only for buying them , but for keeping them on the road too . 
we 've got two cars . 
my wife has a car 
and i like to drive pick up truck . 
so , we are on a schedule where i try every three or four years to buy a new one . 
and i am constantly making car payments , 
but i figure that 's got to be the story of my life anyway , is making car payments . 
so i get one paid for 
and actually i am saving up for another one besides 
so it 's kind of a never ending thing , 
but you try to schedule those things so that you 're not paying for two at the same time is what i am saying . 
have you thought about leasing ? 
i have thought about it , 
i do n't use it for my business . 
i see . 
my wife uses hers just for pleasure 
and i use mine just to go back and forth to work which is only ten miles away 
but if you are rolling it over every three years , it might be advantageous to do that . 
i guess . 
typically , if you purchase your own car you tend to make the best returns after you pay it off . 
of course , the longer you keep it beyond that point , the more profitable it is to own it yourself . 
you 're right . 
i have been know to keep trucks or cars for ten or twelve years , 
but i find that after about four years they kind of start going down hill 
and you got to put stuff in them . 
that 's right . 
mine 's seven years old 
and i think last year that was a rough year for it . 
i had a number of expenses . 
as you get to a certain number of miles , you have to get everything replaced , brakes , shocks and all that . 
so , i just went through that whole set last year . 
i hope that i only have a slow period before i do that again . 
those things can really upset your budget when they come in . 
it 's nice to have a little bit set aside for the unexpected . so that it does n't kill you all in one month . 
what line of work are you in ? 
what 's your view . 
what 's your view ? 
i have a hard time thinking that they can control guns . personally . 
that 's true . 
even if they give it a shot , it 's still going to be black market all over the place , 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know 
i should n't make stereo types , 
but gun control is probably frowned on quite a bit down there i would think . 
it is , 
but i 'm not really from texas , 
i just live down here now . 
i 've lived down here a couple years . 
you just live down there ? 
i 'm originally from colorado , 
but 
there 's a lot of hunters here . 
i know how you feel . 
i grew up in nebraska 
and we always use to go out and hunt all the time 
and there 's no way i would ever go for a total ban on all weapons . 
i do n't know . 
i think it 's ridiculous . 
it does n't sit with me very well . 
i do n't know anymore 
i keep a thirty-eight in my truck . 
i live in minneapolis 
actually i live in florida , 
but i am staying in minneapolis for a year 
and both areas are pretty crime ridden right now 
and it 's just , you never know who is out there . 
it 's just for self protection purposes 
and then of course there 's the hunting issue , 
that 's good . 
what do you do , jeff ? 
i 'm in program control for a company up here . 
we do schedules , for programs , schedule programs . 
what do you do ? 
i 'm researcher of honeywell up here . 
you guys do you get much of a chance to hunt or anything 
i have n't had a chance to do any hunting since i 've been down here . 
i do n't own a shotgun , 
but i 'd like to go bird hunting . 
that 's something i miss quite a bit . 
when i was in colorado we went deer and elk hunting quite a bit 
my brother was a guide for bear and elk hunts out in idaho for a while and really enjoyed it quite a bit , 
but i do n't know . 
that 's right . 
i guess i am about eight or nine . 
i agree with you there . 
no doubt about it 
if they can anyway get it , keep criminals from having guns which they ca n't 
i 'm not for it . 
i guess they passed a couple of laws here while back in some states in terms of a waiting period where you go to buy a hand gun 
i know it 's this way in florida . 
they have a waiting period where you buy one 
and that 's a week 
and then they check you out and make sure you do n't have a record and things like that . 
i think that 's a pretty good idea . 
i do n't know , 
that 's not a bad idea , 
but then again you can always get around that . 
you could go through the black market like you say . 
you always be able to get around 
it 's one of things 
but i do n't know . 
i guess some forms of guns should probably be controlled 
just like i 'm not real sure why anybody would need a full automatic weapon . 
i do n't either . 
i think those have been pretty much banned altogether anyway . 
it kind of takes the sport out of hunting . 
it 's what can you do with that , that you ca n't do in a self protection situation with a seven or a twenty shot twelve . 
you might do the same thing . 
and so it 's like it does . 
it takes the sport out of it . 
for me i would much rather have a bow anytime . 
i like bows . 
i have done some bow hunting 
and i get into it 
and i think it 's more of a challenge . 
but i do n't know . 
i guess it keeps the shell makers in business . 
but i do n't know . 
anyway , that 's about where i stand . 
me too . 
i am about the same way . 
and have you eaten yet or whatever . 
is it seven o'clock there ? 
it 's about seven fifteen . 
you guys central ? 
how is the weather up there ? 
it 's not too good . 
it 's kind of rainy actually . 
is it ? 
around this time of year you expect it up here to get down to about ten or twenty degrees 
and it 's been up around forty . 
so people are whining about the rain and stuff , but not too bad about the temperature . 
ice is starting to melt and stuff like that 
i am just up here for the year 
and it 's kind of shocking . 
i get most of my news from newspapers really . 
i read the daily newspaper the houston chronicle 
and sometimes i 'll read the wall street or the new york times . 
i do n't subscribe to either , 
but sometimes i get a hold of copies of it . 
how about you ? 
i actually get most of my news coverage off computer networks . 
however , i do also watch television news usually in the morning once a day 
and i read the front page of the wall street journal most every day . 
that 's interesting . 
you said computer networks . 
what sort . 
i am fairly knowledgeable of . 
that 's interesting . 
and it 's picked up and actually available at my office , 
so , it 's , no fee , or subscription either to read at my leisure 
and it 's sort of by category . 
for example so i can read a certain business or topics . 
is it the a p news wire 
or is it something that is a little bit different from that ? 
it 's similar to that , 
but it 's dow jones , which is the wall street journals news wire . 
so , that 's interesting . 
i had access in the past to the a p news wire 
and i thought that was a pretty good way to get news . 
i 've never used the dow jones news wire 
do you read any news magazines or anything like that for sort of a broader more long term analytical sort of approach ? 
actually not . 
i do n't know how to describe it 
so i 'll say a religious newspaper which talks about issues that are relevant to me in a more broad sense . 
it 's a weekly but not like business week or news week or one of those kinds of things . 
i 'd like to say however that i 'm overwhelmingly disappointed with the media in general except for the raw news wires . 
in what way ? 
in sort of quality or sort of an orientation in terms of view point or the way the news is presented or whatever ? 
i have a problem with their viewpoint 
and i personally think there 's a strong bias in the media . 
you wo n't offend me . 
like a liberal type of bias . 
absolutely . 
after all , who writes . 
people who are journalist who are trained to write 
and that 's a liberal field at least from academia 
and the other thing that i always notice is that whenever they write about something that i 'm an expert in , i find their descriptions to be wrong 
they generally make mistake on anything technical at least . 
that 's right . 
even if it 's not technical . if it 's some social thing or whatever . it does n't matter . 
if i am an expert in it , they usually make mistakes which makes me think i 'm not expert in it . 
they 're telling me lies . 
by mistakes , do you mean just honest mistakes 
or do you think they are deliberate sorts of things ? 
i think both . 
by deliberate i mean mistakes of omission or , biased toward a particular liberal view point that they have . 
to give you an example , we will go out of the printing media . 
i know of cases where we have one television media where they will show clippings from one event and describe another event but , with the attempt to give you the impression that what they 're talking about is the same thing they are showing you . which is sort of like a deliberate bias . which is rather disturbing . 
that 's disturbing . 
he does that . 
i have n't really noticed them doing that , 
but whatever , 
again i do n't watch t v news that much now . 
if i had access to c n n , i would watch t v news more . 
but i do n't usually . 
i do n't have access either . although , i did at one time 
i did during the gulf war 
and it was addictive . 
did you think that the gulf war coverage would be kind of an abnormality ? 
i would be curious to know what you thought as to how c n n t v news compared to the three networks . whether you thought it was more of a biased or whatever 
but i guess you would n't . 
if you just watched it during the gulf war , that probably would n't tell you much . 
during that small sample , i would think that everyone was just about the same , except the three networks . 
so , if at a particular time , you wanted to get the latest and greatest news you could do that by turning on c n n 
are you married 
and do you have a family ? 
i am to both questions . 
and do you and your wife have a budget plan for your finances . 
we do . 
basically there 's the expenses that are fixed during the month the ones that come every month 
and we enter those into a spread sheet 
and whatever is left after that we sit down and agree on kind of what sort of range we are generally going to shoot for . 
i see . 
what do you do ? 
that 's basically what we do . 
about every three months or so , we re-evaluate our budget 
and we sit down and just write from the largest bills down to the smallest 
and then we divvy them up between our four pay checks . 
i work part time at night 
and my husband works full times days 
and so we have four checks , 
but that works out nice because we get paid every week 
and so that does help , 
that helps a lot . 
and then we do n't have a lot extra for extra spending , 
so it 's pretty well ear marked . 
all allocated out . . 
every penny is ear marked 
but we have found that works the best 
in fact , we found it easier to divide the major bills up cut the house payment in half and cut the loan payment in half , 
and divide those up between all , 
all the checks , 
and so we are not taking a huge sum out of one 
and then the next pay check we 're real short 
we found that it 's definitely helped get a handle on kind of the unnecessary expenses . 
that 's true . 
we kind of tended to eat out a bit more than we should have , 
and it was easy to let things get out of hand . 
we thought it to be really helpful . 
we have gotten some of our loans paid off really because of this and stuff like that 
it helps you to focus where your money goes 
and i am sure you felt the same frustration before you got on a budget , 
but you 're wondering my , when you put down all the money that you do bring in 
and then you 're saying , where did all that money go . 
that 's a lot of money , 
where does it go ? 
and we did this . 
we are not real consistent with this , 
but we did it for about a month 
and we wrote down everything that we bought every pay check 
and so we could see where every penny went 
and it was really interesting to see just what you do spend 
and like i say we have n't been real consistent with it . 
we should cause it does help . 
the other thing that we 've found that helps is we tend to fudge on the budget a little bit 
it 's just to get up the money in advance and put it in so long as it was n't unreasonably high , but for things like food expenses or whatever . just put it in an envelope or whatever 
and that way it kind of forced us to stick to that amount . and then if the entertainment amount was gone for the month say , it 's gone . 
that sounds like a really good idea . 
and it really helpful . 
have you developed a savings plan or i r a s or anything like that yet ? 
we have n't . 
our initial goal was just to completely retire debt for car payments and credit card debt and all of that . 
we are just at a point where we could start thinking about it 
that 's good . 
that 's a good feeling . 
my husband just graduated from the university a year ago 
so finally we are getting to that point too . 
a student . 
are you still going to school 
do you like ? 
lots of different kinds i guess . 
i like country music , of course 
texas 
and i listen to christian music a lot because there 's a christian music station here in our city . 
so i listen to it quite a bit . 
i am more into rock and roll myself . 
and i listen cause on friday nights they have what they call saturday night alive 
or on friday night and saturday night 
and they have christian rock and roll . 
they have that type of music , 
but they just have different words 
so , i listen to that too . 
do you like any bluegrass ? 
not really , 
and i like rap music . 
do you like rap music ? 
not really . 
not really . 
i can tell we 're together here . 
i have a lot of friends that like country music . 
what kind of rock music do you listen to ? 
do you listen to that really heavy metal stuff 
seventies and that stuff . 
late sixties , seventies , 
greatful dead , crosby , stills and nash . 
i have friends that like that . 
what ? 
you have never heard of the christian music that i listen to probably . 
i 've heard a little bit of it . 
have you heard of carmen ? 
have you ever heard of kim ? 
i 've heard of striper . 
striper , 
they 're the heavy metal stuff i guess . 
became more mainstream , top forty . 
cause she plays both secular and christian 
i like her too . 
i have been to a concert a couple of times of hers . 
i 've never actually seen her in concert . 
i imagine that she puts on a pretty good show . 
she does . 
she 's real good . 
so , i like her . 
i like some country music . 
it 's just that i , 
i do n't like the country music that 's like my wife left me , my dog left me , everybody 's left me . 
mama got run over by the train . 
i do n't like that . 
i like randy travis 
i like more of the real new ones . 
like garth brooks . 
garth brooks , 
he 's fine . 
reba macintyre . 
i like them . 
i do n't care for the older the dog left me stuff . 
you do n't like patsy cline ? 
you do n't like patsy cline . 
i do n't even really know who she is . 
but , have you ever been to any of them concerts that you like ? 
actually i just went to see the greatful dead about a week ago . 
but are n't they done with ? 
they are still on tour . 
they have been touring , since the late sixties . 
and i just thought that they done broke up and left . 
they 're still together . 
they 're still making albums . 
i did n't know that . 
that 's interesting . 
in fact there are people that basically just follow them around , from city to city on tour selling tie dye and things like that . 
cause they are on up there in age , are n't they ? 
they 're late forties , early fifties , 
but whenever one of them dies off they get a replacement . 
they seem to have a really bad time with keyboard players . 
they keep on dying 
and they keep on replacing them 
and the new one 's in this thirties . 
cause they look pretty rough . 
i 've seen picture of them 
they do n't actually look as rough as the rolling stones . 
i do n't know if you saw the tour posters of the rolling stones when they last toured , 
but it looked like leather day at the geriatric , 
all their faces were just all shriveled , 
it just looked like they , got a bunch of retirees and put them in leather jackets and blue jeans . 
are you into that rock music all that druggy stuff and all that ? 
you know what i am saying 
they come on the stage 
they do n't even know they are there . 
they are just so out of it . 
actually , i prefer my performers to be pretty sober just so if they 're jamming that they do n't just lose themselves and go into lala land . 
that . 
so , i do n't know . 
have you seen any concerts lately ? 
the other day , i attended a conference here at utah state university on recycling 
and i was kind of interested to hear cause they had some people from the e p a and lots of different places 
and they had basically decided that there is going to be a real problem here within a few years on solid waste . 
i did n't think that was a new revelation . 
it 's not too new . 
what is the e p a recommending now ? 
they really did n't propose any solutions . 
actually , the guy was pretty negative about the things that the government was doing even though he was from the e p a . 
but , he had a lot of facts to give and things like how many solid waste plants were being shut down 
and , one of the most interesting things that he was talking about was recycling of news print . 
he was talking about the city of new york and how they went and collected all this news print 
and they could sell it for a while . 
they were able to sell it for some amount per ton 
and now at this stage of the game where they have gotten into recycling , they 've collected so much news print that they have to pay to have it hauled away . 
that 's a common problem though . 
it seems , that has happened in dallas as well as new york 
and i try to recycle all of the newspapers that come to my house 
and after a while i just quit taking the newspaper because i could n't recycle it anymore which is n't good for business on the other end either , i suppose . 
we 're doing some here in cash valley , the community here . 
we 've actually got a kind of a nice set up . 
we 've got a couple of plants here that actually take recycled paper and shred it and spray it with chemical treatment so that it 's not a fire hazard and make it into insulation 
and they can actually use as much recycled paper as the community can get to them . because they are actually buying it and shipping it in from outside . 
that 's good . 
so one of the real keys to getting recycling for paper or something like that to go is to get some sort of business to actually want it once you have collected it . 
there has to be a reuse for it . 
that 's why they recycle . 
the one i think is the most interesting is with the recycled bottles and all that the industry seems to be doing with the recycled polymers . everything from waste baskets to carpet to the sticky slide rugs under the carpet 
and i think they are even putting it in the roadways these days 
and they 're making clothes now that are recycled . 
like the recycled plastic coke bottles and milk cartons and things like that . 
and there was a paper presented at this conference from a guy from alabama 
and he was kind of hired to do a study by two departments for the government . 
one was environmental protection 
and the other one was i ca n't remember what , 
but the basic idea , it was presented to him was how can we maximize the amount of energy that we can get back from recycling and minimize the volume of stuff that we are putting into our landfill 
and the solution that he came up with for plastics , it was really quite amazing , 
he says , the best thing to do with plastics is to burn them . 
he came to the conclusion , plastics is actually one of the biggest problems in landfills cause it 's low weight , but it 's high volume 
so it takes up a lot of space 
and there 's very little energy value in actually doing a lot of the recycling , 
but there is a lot of energy in it if you can burn it and use it , produce electricity . 
so his solution was to burn plastic . collect it and burn it . 
it 's carbon 
so that makes sense , 
a carbon fuel of some sort , 
but what about emissions ? 
and it 's more than even paper or something like that . 
there is more energy in it per pound or whatever . 
he did n't deal with that . 
he just said burn it . 
he did n't talk about cleaning it up or anything like that . 
so it 's not very practical . 
it 's interesting . 
i bet that was a good day , at the conference then . 
real interesting . 
did it change anything for you ? 
not too much . 
i got . 
i guess we 're talking about exercise ? 
first of all i have to ask you how old you are ? 
i am twenty-seven . 
twenty-seven , 
i am quite a bit older than you are . 
but . 
i think exercise is extremely important 
and i do exercise on a regular basis . 
you do ? 
what type of exercise do you do ? 
you do . 
are you familiar with it ? 
it 's a national company 
and we have a jazzercise center here in plano that has classes all day long 
are they different from aerobics 
or is it the same thing ? 
it 's an aerobic routine . 
you warm up 
and then you have thirty minutes of aerobic activity starting slowly and then working up to a high heart rate 
and then you gradually go down again . 
and you do that every day 
i only do it probably two or three times a week . 
the minimum they want you to do is three times a week . 
and this is a club 
or do you belong to a group ? 
it 's called a center 
and you buy as many classes as you want to at a time 
and then you just go in whenever you can . 
so i usually choose to go at nine thirty in the morning 
or a nine fifteen class or a ten thirty class in the mornings . 
do you go with friends 
or do you go alone ? 
i go by myself 
and that 's one of the frustrating things cause i can find very few people to go with me 
and most of my friends that are my age do n't exercise 
or they might play tennis 
and since i am not a tennis player i do n't get that , 
but i am in my late forties 
so there are n't many people that want to do that . 
young mothers . 
young women , with small children are the ones that i find . 
what do you do ? 
i really do n't have a routine . 
i like playing basketball . 
we just bought a new home with a basketball hoop 
and that 's what i do every day . 
do you play every day ? 
pretty much . 
when my wife lets me . 
who do you play with ? 
do you have friends that play with you 
i just shoot around by myself . 
and that 's about it . 
i use to play soccer a lot in high school , 
but when i graduated i have n't done much . 
i do n't have a problem . 
i know i have to do more aerobics , 
but i do n't have a problem with weight . 
i could eat all day and not gain an ounce . 
that 's really good 
and i think that keeps some people from exercising . 
i do n't have a problem with weight either , 
but i think i do n't have a problem because i exercise 
you do exercise . 
people are always saying to me , how do you stay thin 
and it 's because i exercise 
you do it , 
but i also watch what i eat , 
but you 'll come , 
being twenty-seven , you do n't really have to worry about your heart rate and that yet 
but as you get older you will . 
everyone 's told me my waist line is going to expand one of these days , 
but i do n't know . 
it might not . 
because everybody 's been telling me that too 
and so far it has n't happened , 
and i just feel like you have to constantly weigh yourself and just keep an eye on it and cut back if it starts to get too high . 
i guess i enjoy sports a lot 
so that 's why i 've kept active in that way . 
but you do n't play any other sports but basketball ? 
basketball , 
volleyball 
too bad it 's not really heavy as far as recreation or hobby , 
i do that . 
but , do you ski ? 
being in utah , i was wondering if you ski . 
i use to , 
but it got too expensive , 
did it really ? 
cause i know that skiing in utah is suppose to be great . 
a lot of people do that 
but , i never find the time . 
i had rather do other things . 
i have never skied before , 
but i have friends that go to utah all the time 
they come up here . 
and they ski . 
i guess there 's a place where you can ski , 
is it tahoe ? where you ski from , 
that 's nevada to california i guess . 
that 's in nevada . 
i am thinking about where you can ski over the state line . 
but there is a place in utah called a funny name . 
there 's snow bird or alta . 
but it 's like heavenly . 
is that it ? 
heavenly ? 
i think it 's called heavenly . 
. i 've never heard of that one . 
you 've never heard of that ? 
maybe it is n't in utah . 
but they said they 've skied heavenly 
and it sounded like that they skied really well , when they are actually talking about a place . 
it 's kind of funny . 
do they exercise much for skiing ? 
i know when i went , you can get sore easily 
you can get really sore . 
i 've talked to people , 
but most of these people ski enough so that they do n't get sore . 
mumblex is one or two timer a year if i do go on them 
and i am really sore after . 
and then , is it your quadriceps that are the worst ? 
my legs really , really ache . 
i am using muscles that i have never used before . 
i did aerobics all the time 
and then i went horseback riding 
and still i was so sore 
they just started a recycling program here , i think . 
actually , this is my first experience with recycling program 
but instead of just tossing everything away which i always felt bad about i am starting to split stuff up . 
the only disadvantage is that they do n't pick it up at the curb . 
they make me drive it a mile down the road and spit it out down there . 
what are they doing up there ? 
here in saskatoon much the same thing . 
there is no curb pick up of any of the recycled products . 
we 're in a community of about one hundred and eighty thousand people . 
one they do as just a recycling operation and then others they collect the paper and ship it to other retailers 
so we are able to have drop off bins for news papers and cardboard and that kind of thing 
and then there 's a deposit program on plastic and glass containers . primarily soft drink bottles 
and so we are able to take it to one of the rehabilitation centers 
and then they recycle the containers . 
they refund the deposit which is anywhere from five to fifteen cents a container 
the deposit 's only on drink stuff . 
primarily on soft drink , pops and that kind of thing 
so , they induce recycling of plastic and glass , soft drink containers . 
we do have one of the scrape metal dealers that will accept tin and aluminum cans as well 
and so the recycler , with the handicapped group will also accept those . 
so it 's fairly extensive , 
but then again it 's the initiative of the individual person because there is no coordinated pick up by the city . 
are you giving these products to the handicapped group 
and the handicapped group is getting the money 
or are they some home distributing the funds back to you . 
actually there 's the opportunity for both . 
actually , the government has placed the deposit which is the inducement to recycle the bottle so that you get your money back 
and then the recycler run by the handicapped society pays back the cost of that deposit 
and then they in turn will get some money from the bottlers and from the people that do the canning of the pop and the beer as well . 
that 's very cool . 
but what they do is employ homeless people to go out and collect all the recyclable cans 
and i think it 's mostly cans . 
there may be bottles as well , 
but beer cans , soda cans and what not 
and they bring them up to one centralized location and are able to collect the money from the various beer and soda manufacturers and get more money to these people that desperately need it . 
i guess partly because of our climate . 
i want to say central canada , 
but central canada tends to referred more to ontario and quebec 
but we do n't have much of a situation where we might call them homeless people . 
we certainly have a fair number of people that are on welfare and unemployment insurance and that kind of thing . 
there 's psychological pressure against employing people to do that kind of thing although scouts and hockey teams and ball teams , those kinds regularly do bottle drives where they go around in various neighborhoods and collect the bottles at individual homes . 
do they do it with news papers as well ? 
they have done it some , 
but we have actually quite an extensive network of collecting news papers . 
they are actually at , virtually all of the shopping centers . the shopping malls . 
there are several containers where the group called cosmopolitan industries collects 
or people can drop their used news papers and other papers in the bins 
and then the bins are collected . 
the question was kind of interesting to me because i was just trying to put together a long term financial plan and monthly budget . 
the only thing i do now is put the data into quicken . 
i do n't know if you are familiar with that . 
i have some friends of mine who use quicken 
and i 've considered using it once myself , 
but i decided that the amount of information that would have to go in would be a lot of time keeping that up to date . 
so i kind of gave up on the idea of using quicken , at least for now . 
. i 've found it 's the only reliable way to keep a check book balanced actually because what will happen is my wife will write a few checks and then not bother to total it 
and then it comes in to doing all the arithmetic . 
so it really helps with that . 
it 's similar problems 
but we just have the one check book 
and we try to keep it up to date as much as possible 
and occasionally we will get behind like you say 
but it does n't really seem to be too tight if we just remember to keep everything up to date and balanced . 
how to you handle that , the long range or medium range planning on finances ? 
actually we have n't had to . until just recently . 
i guess we 've got a daughter who is eighteen months and another one on the way 
so we needed to start doing more of that just for saving for college and things like that . 
we try to put away two and four thousand a year just for that . 
that 's pretty good if you can do that . 
i know . 
i have a daughter who 's ten 
and we have n't really put much away for her college up to this point 
but we 're to the point now where our financial income is enough that we can consider putting some away for college , 
so we are going to be starting a regular payroll deduction in the fall 
and then the money that i will be making this summer we 'll be putting away for the college fund . 
. sounds good . 
my wife worked until we had a family 
and then now we 're just going on the one income 
find some extra payroll deductions is probably the only way we will be able to do it . 
kind of enforce the savings . 
our situation is just kind of the opposite of that cause my wife was not working for some time and was going to school and just recently took on a full time job , 
almost full time . 
so , it 's only recently that we 've had the money where we could start putting away large sums of it for long range goals like college and sickness and travel and that kind of thing . 
that sounds good . 
stockton . 
how about you ? 
cincinnati , actually . 
i was kind of wondering if they would be collecting people with the western accents or something like that . 
i do n't know how many people are getting involved in this 
but that 's interesting . 
i was kind of interested if you found out about the study by reading telecom digest 
or was there another ? 
a colleague of mine at work got some information over the computer network called internet . 
that is how i got it as well 
and he just forwarded that on to me 
and it sounded like it would be an interesting project to participate in 
so i sent back mail . 
i guess we 're talking about the experiment . 
probably need to try to get back on the topic 
but it 's hard to talk about finances without getting to dollar figures i guess , 
we could talk about some of the long range goals 
what other long range goals do you have besides college ? 
i think , either my wife or i would like to pursue advanced degrees at some point 
i guess we will have to factor that in if we are not working for employers that happen to fund that . 
it seems like every year my employer just gives back a little bit your tuition reimbursement . 
they use to reimburse one hundred percent 
and now it 's reimbursement depending on the grade you get in class 
how about you . 
what do you do with your budget ? 
what do i do , 
at the moment it 's under chaos . 
i do n't really have a budget per se . 
it 's called living within your means which means at the moment , paying off the visa bill and keeping everything else under control and hoping the car does n't collapse . 
that 's true . 
but 
i do n't really have a budget at the moment . 
but i have a rough feel for how much money i can afford to spend each month 
and then i usually do n't exceed that unless the visa bill gets out of hand for one reason or another , like if i have car expenses 
and then it goes through the moon , 
that 's sort of a problem . 
so far we are in the clear credit wise 
so , not much on that side of it to add to it . 
we 're trying to think of how to put away some savings and stuff like that 
so you can afford to get a house ? 
we 'd like to do that some day . 
we have this dream . 
but , we do n't know how long it will be a dream . 
we 're real happy that we do n't have any debt , 
but at the same time we 're real scared about incurring it in this economy right now 
so we 're stepping real careful and trying to see what 's the best way to save the little bit that we do get on top of expenses every month . 
what do you and your husband do ? 
we 're missionaries actually . 
are you really ? 
and it will be easier once we get overseas cause we have support quota 
and it 's cheaper to live overseas than it is to live here . 
and it does n't get switched very easily once you come home . 
i see . 
overseas , where would you be going ? 
africa , 
nigeria . 
how long would you be there ? 
about four years . 
we 're career 
so , we go over seas for four years 
and then we come back for a year . 
we go over four , 
we come back for a year . 
with what church ? 
we 're with wycliff bible translators . 
i know who they are . 
they have an office in costa mesa as i recall . 
there was a fairly large building that belongs to them . 
are you , active in translation ? 
we will be . 
i was over four years doing language surveying which is the first step . 
you 're kind of like the scout that goes ahead of the team and assesses the need . 
and came home and got married 
and we will go back as translators cause we want to raise a family 
and it is easier to raise a family as translators . 
i always wanted to do translation , 
but as long as i was single and foot loose so to speak it 's easier . 
they really need surveyors cause you 're free to travel anywhere . 
you do n't have kids hanging around you and stuff . 
true , 
true enough . 
what languages do you speak besides english , of course ? 
i have a smattering of about ten different ones , 
i 'm not bilingual in any of them because i kept switching from one area to the other , 
since i did complete a survey in one area , i 'd switch to the other . 
so i know the greetings in about ten , and how to do market stuff , 
but in about five i can do better in it . 
and my french is pretty good 
but it 's french 
so i 'm terrified to speak in france . 
in france . 
because they 're real snobby about their language 
and french is street french 
and i just picked it up off the street 
and i knew what i was communicating , 
but i did n't know what i was saying . 
i never sat there and got a direct translation 
and said something here when i came home and 
and he paled and said i 'm not going to tell you what you said . 
so , since then i have refrained from speaking any french . 
i do n't know what i said to him 
but i did n't ask him either . 
must have been terrible . 
was it henry macon said that the , language was like a man slowly bleeding to death . 
so they hemorrhaged him to death without new infusions 
and it just amazes me that the french do n't recognize that . 
what do you think about putting the elderly in a nursing home ? 
i think that it varies on the individual basis . 
sometimes there is no alternative . 
you may not even have family who are around . 
that 's true . 
so , sometimes it 's not an alternative . 
but i think also , sometimes it can be a benefit if it 's for a short time . 
especially if it 's after an acute illness . 
or to rehab after an illness . 
that 's true . 
i never thought of that . 
sometimes the nursing homes are good for just short periods of time . 
that 's true , 
until they get over that hump of whatever it is they 're dealing with . 
because too often the acute hospitals are sending them out much faster than what they 're really able to . 
they really are . 
they do n't like to keep them longer than a week . 
so there is some good to it . 
sometimes too , it 's used as a dumb job . 
the families do not necessarily know what to do with them 
what do you mean ? 
and they do n't want to take the responsibility 
so they will put them in a nursing home . 
that 's true . 
so there 's both sides to it too . 
what do you think ? 
and it depends on how sick the person is too . 
what you 're capable of , 
if you have a family to take care of of your own . 
i would personally like it 
if my parents were to get ill , i would like to take care of them at home and with some help . 
that 's not always possible . 
that 's true . 
but to the best of my ability , i 'd like to do it until it gets impossible . 
there 's not a choice , because , it 's not economically feasible even to put them in a nursing home . 
so that option sometimes is not available if they do not have either medicare or insurance to cover it . 
that 's true . 
but i think nursing homes can be good . 
it just depends on what kind they are . 
you need to check them out ahead of time . 
and then there 's also some that are set up for specialties 
i know some . 
unfortunately , some elderly have , alzheimer 's or where they wonder or , confused or have some mental problem . 
and you need a special nursing home for that . 
you need one that has a unit that 's locked where they are not able to get out and roam around 
and you need people who are trained for that type of problem . 
who know what they 're doing with that . 
so there 's different types of nursing homes i think . 
my grandmother 's not really in a nursing home , but a retirement home that also has a nursing home sort of attached to it . 
and she really liked the idea of moving there . 
she 's not ill yet 
but she worked there as a volunteer for about ten years 
and then she decided that eventually she does n't want her family taking care of her and being a burden . 
she 's very independent . 
so she 's in this nursing home . 
it 's out in the country 
and she really enjoys it right now because she does n't have to wash dishes or cook . 
gives her a little bit of her own independence 
but she still has a security there . 
some support . 
and then there 's also sort of a wing for those people that do get sick 
and , what i like about it and i think she likes about it is that she knows everybody there now 
so if she ever does become ill it will be like family around her . 
that 's right 
and i 've seen some of them like that too 
and also they have a lot of activities going on for the ones who are more active . 
so it 's not sort of like a sick place . 
she loves it . 
she has a great social life 
and she travels 
and it 's in the mountains 
and it 's beautiful 
and i hope that i have something like that when i get older . 
i think that the decision that needs to be made though on nursing home has to be a joint one between the elderly person who 's going in and the family that 's going to be effected by it 
and sometimes those choices can be made in advance 
guy some of my things , i 'd like to have a short work week , 
we can start off there . 
let 's just get started . 
if you do n't want to talk about it now and then be bored when we get to it . 
i just press one then ? 
i think that a short work week is real nice . 
i have a thirty-seven hour work week . 
how about you ? 
right now , i 'm just a student . 
i only work part time , 
but i 've work in the job force before 
and forty hours is just too long . 
you just do n't have any time to do anything . 
it seems like , saturday you get off , but sunday you 're getting ready for monday . 
and then that way everybody would have a three day holiday . 
and that would make a bigger market . 
we 'd have more recreation . 
people would have time to do it . 
there would be less of a stress level . 
we 'd have less crime . 
we 'd have to build less prisons less police force . 
it all makes sense to me . 
although , there may be more crime if people have more leisure time . 
it 's not clear . 
that 's a possibility . 
one of the problems they 're facing now , a lot of people now , is that the small business ca n't offer health insurance 
and it 's too costly 
and what is happening is that they 're on a policy where they have x amount of users in it . 
so they get a specific rate . 
it 's called a group , 
what happens then is that they cancel , because they just ca n't cancel an individual . 
so they have to cancel just life insurance . 
they have to cancel everything . 
what they do is that they cancel the insurance 
and then all the people do n't have any insurance coverage . 
but , i 'm satisfied with my job . 
i 'm an engineering student . 
and i work for my instructor 
and i 'm not a typical student . 
i 'm older . 
i 'm in my thirties . 
and so i have a lot of job experience 
and my instructor thrives on that because he can just tell me what he wants 
and he can give me access and tell me what to do and just turn me loose 
but in the same token , it 's really enjoyable for me because i do n't have to have nobody breathing down my back 
and one of the things that i really hate about jobs . i do n't like bosses that want to yell at you and are down on your back and all this and that . 
i just really ca n't deal with that 
what kind of jobs have you done ? 
i do research in computer science 
and i 've just been doing that for a few years now 
my job has most of the benefits i want . 
they send me to conferences for instance , but probably not as much as i 'd like 
a really important thing to me is when they pay for continuing education . 
i get night courses that they 'll cover right now 
and that 's really good 
that 's just great . 
you have what you might call knowledge power 
some people can be let go and replaced like a typist somebody who does data entry or answers the telephone or receptionist . 
but if you 're a person that 's doing computer type things and you have the knowledge , you 've revised and revamped the system then you 're vital to the company 
and you get more benefits 
i 'm into computers too 
when you have the knowledge , you 're not going to be let go , 
so , do you think our politicians are honest at this point in time ? 
generally , i do n't think they are . 
my personal opinion is that the politicians are out for their own good because they 're entrenched . 
they do n't ever have to go out and get a real job . 
they just stay in their current job , 
you know what i mean ? 
i agree with both of those things , 
but do you see any way of altering it so that they would become more honest ? 
i think by putting term limitations on you could slow down some of the problems . 
but it has to be not just at the national level but at the state and the local level , too . 
i know some senators , 
and i do n't know which ones , 
but they 've been in office since the nineteen forties 
they 've never had a job . 
they 've never gone out in the real world and paid normal taxes . 
i know they pay taxes , 
they get paid a hundred and twenty-five grand a year . which is more than twice my salary by quite a bit 
and i 'm going i do n't understand how they 're supposed to be my servants and yet they 're paid more than i am 
and they work less than i do . 
the only problem i see with term limitations is that i think that the bureaucracy in our government as is with most governments is just so complex that there is a learning curve and that you ca n't just send someone off to washington and expect his first day to be an effective congress person . 
i think there 's a lot they need to learn when you get there . 
i think that 's true , 
however , i think that 's always been true . 
that 's true of the presidency , too , 
and we seem to be able to get along with the president turnover ever eight years or four years . 
there is a lot to learn , 
but maybe it will keep them on their toes and a little bit more active in trying to catch up . 
i think two years is too short . 
i think it would have to be extended , 
a term limitation for congress would be three terms or even four terms 
or you would increase the length of each term of a congressman . 
but maybe standardizing on a four year term for congress senate and the presidency and then staggering them so that , 
we are n't tackling a massive ballot every four years . 
the other thing that bothers me about our system is just that in congress the amount of power any particular congress critter has is based on their seniority and how long they 've been there 
i 'm just going to vote against the incumbent every time does n't work , 
it 's going to wind up hurting your state if all the other states are n't doing it at the same time . 
i think that that 's true , 
but then you have the same abuse of power on the flip side of that coin . 
the c i a is moving out to west virginia which is a really stupid location for a large agency like that and for almost any agency . 
the action is n't in west virginia . 
i hate to tell the senator from west virginia this information , 
the world does not revolve around west virginia as far as this country is concerned , 
the world does revolve around d c as far as the politics in this country are concerned , the national politics 
and the c i a is a very large , very high profile agency 
it might only be two hour drive from here , 
but that 's a two hour drive 
and i think it 's a mistake to move large agencies like that 
or is it the f b i . 
i do n't remember , 
i do n't see why it makes a big difference because officially they do n't have any operations within the united states other than administrative . 
that 's officially . 
we all know that that 's not necessarily true . 
but i think that there are advantages to having seniority or , not having a complete turnover every , some small number of years . 
i think there 's an institutional memory that you need to maintain . 
i heard on the radio back a few weeks ago during the incidents where they are n't paying their restaurant bills and they 're bouncing checks all over the place 
one of the radio stations over here listed off every single one of the perks . 
how you like new jersey ? 
it 's pretty good . 
you get closer to the coast here , 
and you do get a good bit of smog and stuff , especially from all the fuel cracking towers and chemical plants . 
i guess it 's fairly industrial ? 
when you get further east towards new york city it gets very industrial 
but i 'm about thirty miles west of there 
so you have actually green trees such that you do n't notice that , that other part of new jersey exists . 
you go even a few miles out 
and you got farms and everything 
i do n't know about you , 
but i 've always considered automobiles to be , probably the prime contributor . 
there 's a lot of contributors , 
but it seems that automobiles would probably do more than their fair share of that . 
definitely . 
there are a large number of them on the road . 
they 're all going , 
and a lot of them are in relatively poor repair . 
a big issue is a lot of states do n't have a inspection law 
so you get a lot of people out there without e t r , emission control systems on their cars and things like that . 
even where you do have the inspections the inspection is once a year . 
you get the car that 's in the accident 
and muffler falls off or something 
and guy keeps driving along for long period of time after that . 
i guess , from what i hear , though next year ford is coming out with their electric cars . 
they 're actually coming out with the first prototypes in california . 
natural gas powered rather than gasoline . 
i 'm hoping that comes along quick . 
i was reading an article in time the other day about the ozone layer and how fast that 's going 
and i guess it 's really disappearing a lot quicker than people realize 
and i know it 's not due to gasoline or to carbon monoxide so much as the c f c -s 
it is coming from cars , though . 
i think that 's a contributor definitely . 
the car air conditioners is one of the major leaking sources of the freon . which is one of the major fluorocarbons . 
i guess right now what they 're primarily worried about is third world countries because i guess united states and russia have kind of taken the lead in terms of eliminating c f c production , 
go ahead . 
the third world countries are less industrial 
and they want to become industrial 
so they 're on the different part of the cycle of the u s . 
the u s used all the air pollution stuff and air polluting technologies to get where it is today . 
and that 's one of the arguments that the third world countries have been using is , that basically they do n't want to have to pay for our mistakes if that makes any sense . 
or they want the right to make the same mistakes themselves to bootstrap them up to where we got to . 
those are joining arguments , 
but i do n't know , 
that 's kind of an interesting situation there . 
those third world countries , what they do n't realize is how quickly the ozone is depleting . 
i guess the latest figures are up to fifty percent at the poles 
and it 's increasing even as near the equator as florida and cuba and those places . 
so it 's kind of an interesting situation . 
it 's not a real good one actually . 
you also have the very close related thing of the rain forest destruction which is the main source of what 's clearing out the atmosphere and replacing some of the pollutants . 
you do n't get that source of cleansing anymore . 
have you been in big cities a long time ? 
i 've mostly been in the east coast , 
so that 's going between atlanta , d c area , 
those are actually areas that are hit pretty hard , i would think . 
not as hard as some places out west because you do n't get the major pollution sources as you do out in denver with the inversion and los angeles and rest of california which is just terrible . 
that 's one of the worst . 
denver 's that real good example of sitting in a valley , kind of like mexico city does , i guess . 
mexico city is historically been one of the worst in the world for that . 
but i 've been pretty lucky , 
i 've lived in cities that really have n't had that much of a problem , although i 'm really kind of based in orlando , florida 
and there , you can tell that it 's getting worse . 
definitely it 's not at a level comparable to los angeles or denver 
there , it 's almost all automobiles because there 's not that much in the way of heavy industry that would be causing it . 
and there 's not that much in terms of public transportation down there . 
there is , 
jimmy how do you get most of your news ? 
i watch the national news every day , for one . 
i also read one or two papers a day 
and i 'm pretty much a news junkie 
and i tune in to c n n a lot . 
every evening at six thirty i watch the national news . 
i would probably be a junkie or watch c n n a lot , 
i give to the united way 
and so i figured that amount of money i just donate to that . 
as opposed to paying for cable . 
i take away a addiction . 
the quality of the news you get off of most sources is pretty low . 
usually you get pretty incomplete coverage 
and that 's one of the reasons why i try and get as many sources as possible , 
because if you hear the same story from three different sources , then you get a much clearer picture of what is going on . you would hope , 
but still hard to say that what you 've heard is what really is . 
what , newspapers do you read ? 
i read the local newspaper 
and i also try and read one of the major dailies like the chicago tribune , or the new york times or something like that . 
she was unemployed for a while 
so she really needed to look at the help wanted ads 
and so often the newspapers are trying to compete with a lot of other sources of news . 
and , i do n't know , 
new york times is okay , 
and when you read a lot of this stuff , the quality of the writing has definitely gone down in the last ten years or so , 
but they say it 's like the sixth grade reading level , 
but i swear it 's at least second or third grade , sometimes . 
pretty low . 
but , i do n't know , 
i really like n p r a lot . 
that 's pretty good . 
when i get a chance , when i 'm in the car a long enough time to listen to it , 
i miss n p r a lot also . 
instead of being , as your newspaper or your t v news where you get a five minute blurb or a ten paragraph blurb , they go really in depth on topics which i think is good . 
their editorial stand point seems to be a lot better than your major network news and that kind of thing . 
i guess he 's leaving , 
one of them is leaving . 
they 're pretty good , too . 
i guess a year ago you 're probably watching c n n a lot , 
had that invasion or whatever it is . 
sure was . 
but i do n't know , 
i guess a lot of it 's still a lot of hype . 
look at the smith trial . 
that was a joke . 
but then you also have things where they broadcast the clarence thomas hearings basically the whole length of them which i thought was really good . 
the n p r doing that , 
i know , 
i had some visitor 
and he was just , fixated on that just listened to it constantly . 
and i guess that 's good when it 's live , if you 'll really want that , 
but that 's not really providing you news . 
it 's more like a media event rather than reporting . 
but the news that you would get from any other source is being generated from that event , which is something that 's good also about c span which i tune into every once in a while . 
that 's kind of boring to me , i think . 
it is , really kind of boring , 
if you do n't watch it there , then you 're going to hear somebody else 's canned report , somebody else 's view about it 
if you watch the news , your opinion is going to be formed on what somebody else thought about it as opposed to actually watching it yourself and forming your own opinion , which i would be much more in favor of forming my own opinion as opposed to following someone else 's . 
i guess that 's true . 
but , one of the ways that i get information is every day when i log in on the computer i subscribe to this thing , 
it 's free inside the company , 
it 's called intellect 
i 've actually read the actual articles , 
i thought it was supposed to give a recording , 
but i do take care of pretty much all of the stuff for my wife and for me 
and i . 
all i do is keep a list of things like debts that are outstanding and every two or three months update that and every once in a while make a list of what we spent that month , 
but i doubt i do it more than three times a year . 
do you use a computer ? 
i work with them all day , 
i 'm in computer science , 
yet i do everything on paper . 
i do n't even use a calculator for the stuff i 'm doing because it 's all pretty round numbers . 
mine is really simple , because i got all our bills paid off when he was a marine , 
he went to saudi arabia 
and while he was gone i got all of our bills paid off , 
so really the only bills i have is rent , utilities , insurance , 
so they come in , 
i pay them , 
and that 's it , 
that 's about the extent of it . 
i do n't really have this major budget or anything . 
i 'm real thrifty . 
just real careful with the money what little we have , 
that 's what i do . 
it 's pretty straightforward . 
i ca n't imagine having to go into real complicated stuff and making fancy budgets . 
it seems like if you 're getting to that level , you 're not in real good control . 
i 've never liked credit cards and a lot of debt , 
you buy something on credit 
and you pay twice as much for it when you get done 
actually i like using credit cards for everything , but just paying off the bills because that way it 's a record of everything 
and i do n't have to worry about keeping records of anything else because they come in at the end of the month . 
i do n't have too many weaknesses , 
but i found out a credit card was one of them , 
it 's so much easier , if something 's on sale if you 're a woman and you 're a sale person , 
it 's it 's on sale , 
let 's go grab it , 
and if you do n't have the money , then use a credit card , 
so , i got rid of them credit cards . 
i guess if that 's a weakness , that 's a good thing to do . 
that was my weakness . 
it was n't bad , 
i did n't have thousands of dollars and like that , 
i just learned that that was n't for me . 
but i , self-employed , 
i have my own little cleaning business type thing , 
do you find trouble keeping the records for taxes and all that 
it 's not hard , 
i just keep it in a notebook and write down what i 've made and what it 's going to have to go for that month 
and it 's not that hard . not at all . 
that 's good to know . 
i always do my own income tax . 
do you ? 
i do n't understand the idea of paying somebody to do it . 
it seems like it 's absurd the number of people who end up having to pay somebody to do it . 
all you got to do is read the little book they send 
you fill in the blanks and go . 
just the form . 
and a lot of them . 
it 's dumb . 
but i do n't , 
so , i do n't mess with it . 
but , i do n't use a calculator either . 
i do n't trust myself with using a calculator or computer , too much stuff like that because i want to make sure that i keep on top of the numbers and understand what 's going on . 
i do n't have that many , things to add up 
i know too many people who use a calculator 
if they make a mistake , they find out two months later because they were n't paying attention . 
i bank at n c n b here 
and they have a number that you can call in , 
and i always call in once every other week or so 
and i will check off what checks have cleared 
do you do that ? 
we have the same thing . 
you do too ? 
and i always check them off and check my balance and my book because i always want to know exactly what i have . 
i do that real often . 
i do that , 
what are your views on capital punishment ? 
i have ambivalent feelings because i do n't think it serves as a kind of deterrent we would like to think it is . 
texas has one of the biggest criminal justice systems in the country . 
and it 's eating us alive budget wise 
are they currently practicing capital punishment in your state ? 
we do practice capital punishment , 
but the nature of the courts and the appeals and the stays and all that means that it 's a very long haul before anybody 's ever executed . 
that 's similar to georgia . 
and then , i was reading in the paper just this morning that it costs more to execute somebody than it does to keep them . because of all the costs of the appeals and all that . 
i think capital punishment is supposed to be primarily a deterrent to other people who would see it . 
that would be the intent of it . 
but i 'm not sure how successful that is . 
i think it would be more successful if it was applied in a more expedient manner , if there were n't so many appeals . 
quicker maybe , 
what kind of work do you do ? 
i 'm a research engineer , 
i work with georgia tech . 
i 'm a school principal . 
elementary school . 
and in a very poor section of town with predominantly anglo kids . 
and i see kids already that are going to be criminals in spite of everything we can do 
course , you could n't do that because you got to do something with the ones that are already there 
but i think we would make a bigger investment in kids , we 'd have fewer decisions to make . down the road . 
that 's probably true , 
but , pumping more money into the school system is a good thing , 
i 'm not talking about just in the school system . 
i see . 
i 'm afraid i think that there are kids who just ought to be taken out of their homes and reared . 
i know the institutions do n't work that well , 
but it 's a bad day because i get all these kids through my office . 
i have a school of five hundred and thirty-seven kids . 
five hundred of them are good , solid kids 
and i have the same thirty-seven in my office every day . 
and a lot of their parents are totally irresponsible . 
some of them in the penal system . 
so that 's a difficult situation . 
and you just see those kids going down the road . 
not all of them will commit offenses that have to do with capital punishment , 
but some of them have already been in youth centers . and that kind of thing , 
and i 'm not talking about necessarily in the school system , 
i 'm not sure that the school system should be the agent of all the social action . 
i think that 's one reason we have problems in schools , 
and some of them are our problems , 
but a lot of it 's because everything society wants , we are supposed to do . 
but that 's another subject 
that 's probably true . 
i dealt with two or three kids today that are going to end up where somebody . 
i guess that 's not an easy solution . 
there 's no easy solution for that . 
i do n't know that there is an easy solution , 
do you know it costs more to keep an inmate on death row than it does to send a kid to harvard ? 
that 's true . 
i 'm sure it is , 
statistically , that 's true . 
certainly capital punishment is n't going to solve a lot of problems 
are you for it ? 
i 'm for it in some cases . 
in certain crimes . 
what kind of crimes would you use it for ? 
any mass murderer type individual . 
i would consider it for sexual abuse of children , on going not one instance , but perpetual abusers of children . 
you always have castration . 
somebody elected that recently . 
i read about that . 
and all the civil rights people are up in arms about it . 
so , julie , how do you feel about aids research ? 
i think we definitely need more of it , definitely . 
i 'd agree , too , 
for certain . 
because , the country 's going to wind up paying for the treatment of patients . 
do they cover diseases like that ? 
i think they cover aids , 
but what they do is if you apply to get a insurance policy they 'll check to see if you 're h i v positive 
and if you are , not only will they not give you a policy , 
there 's a database of people that have tested positive , 
so you 'll never be able to get insurance ever again . 
but that 's why they should have started doing stuff before . 
still since it 's dormant for such a long time , there 's still probably a lot of people who are draining a lot of money right now , 
and all these god-fearing people were god is trying to kill off all the et cetera , et cetera . 
one humorous retort i heard was that , then lesbians must be god 's chosen people . 
that 's a good one . 
i really do n't . 
i did a research kind of thing on aids research and stuff , 
and really we 're not doing much at all , 
most of what gets raised , it 's not really federal movement , 
most of what gets raised , gets raised by conscious communities and things like that . 
private organizations . 
san francisco has a real strong aids support group and all that kind of stuff 
and , they get donations from the community and from corporations around the city for aids research and that kind of thing 
it seems that it 's just going to reach a steady state a lot , lot higher point than it will if we 'd nip it in the bud to quote barney fife . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know what the likelihood of that is , 
but people really waking up . 
especially with the ultra conservatives move our political system sort of seems to be taking . 
i would probably agree with that . 
so do you think it 's more important to spend money on research or for support of people ? 
that 's a good question , fish . 
i do n't know , 
i think one of the main things that 's really important to spend money on is education , not support or , research per se , but education because a lot of people sort of get drummed out of the work place and out of society kind of like lepers would 
and it 's really not necessary until the , disease reaches its final stage becomes really infectious 
and i think that would be the most effective support they could get is for other people to try to understand what they 're going through and everything and try to understand that they do n't have to be just completely cut off from the community 
and , i do n't know , 
i guess i think that , research is the most important , just because it really needs to come to an end . 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know , fish . 
what do you think about that subject ? 
my feeling is that it 's really being used today , 
it really is n't doing any real good purpose for anything because it 's not cost effective because of the amount of time the people end up waiting on appeal . 
i think i 've seen some statistics that say that it 's more expensive to kill somebody than to keep them in prison for life . 
because you 've got all the prison expenses , plus all the legal expenses . 
and it certainly does n't seem to be a deterrent . for one thing because it 's used so infrequently and for another thing because i honestly do n't think the people that are committing the crimes that would be eligible really care . 
committing them mostly is either crimes of passion or at the moment 
or they think they 're not going to get caught 
it 's kind of like the aids phenomenon , 
i 'm invulnerable , 
i do n't need to care about this . 
i 'm never going to get caught . 
but you also have to think whether it 's worthwhile on the individual basis , 
for example , someone like jeffrey dahlmer , 
by putting him in prison for life , there is still a possibility that he will get out again . 
one way or another . 
whereas if you kill him , there is not that possibility . 
but the other side to that is , if you put him in prison for life , there 's a chance that he might do things in prison , and somehow redeem himself . 
i do n't think he could ever redeem himself , 
but in some cases . 
the other problem with capital punishment you run into is , what are you going to do about people who are later to have been found innocent ? 
there are cases where twenty , thirty years after the fact of getting evidence , especially as new technology comes along that might prove their innocence , then , i 'm sorry , 
guess we killed the wrong guy . 
once you 've made a decision that way , it 's a little difficult to go back on it . 
you can apologize nicely , 
it 's better that a thousand people go free , than one person be unjustly imprisoned is really the philosophy of the way our legal system works . 
the benefit of the doubt to the last iota is based on the person who is accused . 
where are we going to impose , 
tsongas is also saying make it a capital crime to be a major drug dealer . 
and , again , i do n't thing these people care . 
they risk their lives every day . 
and , they seem that the profit margin 's so high that , the risk is almost not there . 
and , especially , now , i live in massachusetts , 
we 're going to get capital punishment here probably after the second coming or something . 
i think it 's mainly , people they get the vengeance of it . 
i used to live in georgia 
and the big thing down there was , we have capital punishment , 
but if you look at who gets accused and who are the ones who actually get executed , it 's very racially related and ethnically related , 
it 's lot of blacks . 
also a lot of young people . 
a sixty-two year old guy is less likely to be put on death row from what i 've seen . 
and i think when you listen to the victims ' families and things , they 're always talking about feeling justified or feeling like they 've gotten something out of it , 
my thought has been , once the guy has been imprisoned , if he goes to jail forever or whatever , if he gets killed , it should n't make any difference to the victim 's family . 
obviously , if someone of mine who has close died , i 'd probably feel differently , 
but the important thing is that they be caught and not be a danger to society . 
and also by keeping them in prison , you do have the possibility of making restitution . 
you will work your prison job 
and any money you earn will go to the victim 's family . 
i was reading through a book on human geneo research 
and there , more and more things like schizophrenia 
and why , does it just turn out to be genetic or biochemical in origin . 
and if you take this regularly , you 'll be a sane and productive member of society , 
you really get back to the question of is someone responsible for their actions . 
i think on some of it , you have to say someone 's responsible for his actions . 
i never liked the insanity defense . 
society made me do it . 
let 's see , 
mine 's pretty easy actually . 
i just got done reading a couple magazine articles about the new saturns . 
and , although i ca n't afford it right now , i would just love to have one . 
so you 're an american 
you want to buy american . 
regardless of that fact . 
it 's the best car in the class for the cheapest amount of money . 
i 'm interested in having it for doing a little autocross racing closed circuit racing 
and it seems to just blow the competition away . 
it terms of handling acceleration , 
handling , power , everything . 
it just got the top rating . 
let 's see , 
there was the mazda m x three nissan 's , whatever , their n x two thousand , the civic s i 
and it dominated over all of them . 
everybody , all the raters loved it . 
i like the styling 
and , i seen a few of them actually race 
and they seem to be really good cars for it . 
what about mustang g t -s ? 
mustang g t -s ? 
ca n't afford it . 
so you 're talking about ones in a lower end , price range . 
i 'm a graduate student 
and , let 's face it , 
i do n't make any money 
you can wait till you graduate 
and you 'll have plenty of money , 
you can buy whatever you want . 
we 'll see then . 
right now i 'm stuck , 
it 's fast , but unreliable 
and trying to get it prepared for racing . 
but it would be nice , just scrap it and go for the saturn . 
would you use that for city driving and racing ? 
i 'd use it for both . 
the nice thing about autocrossing is you can do both . 
what kind of track is that ? 
just a set up a lot of times 
and it 's really large parking lots . and pylons and things . 
and you set up the track , pylons . 
tight turns , hard acceleration . 
i 've seen a lot of mustangs compete 
and it 's interesting . 
they get dominated by the corvettes that are also in their class . 
i would guess so . 
what are you thinking about buying ? 
i think i 'd like to get b m w or maybe a acura legend . 
the legend . 
a lexus s c three hundred maybe . something on that order . 
i have n't really determined if i like the japanese or if i like them enough to purchase one . . 
because your b m w -s , your german cars have good reputations , i think . 
a lot of the b m w -s are produced in stutgardt and munich 
and i was there this summer 
and i was really impressed by the , factory tours and such for b m w . 
they have the whole philosophy , 
they kind of even brainwash themselves into thinking they 're better , which is kind of hard to take . 
as you 're walking through that little tour in munich , it 's kind of , they 're trying to brainwash you , too . 
of course , 
of course they are . 
they want you to buy their car . 
it was interesting . 
i also went to , the porsche 
and it was amazing how they were completely opposed . 
the b m w is really , we have all these high tech things 
and everything is put together with exacting tolerances 
and then you go to porsche 
and it 's these cars are completely handmade 
and no two of them are alike . 
so it 's completely opposed . 
i do n't know , 
which do i like better , 
i think i like the porsche 's philosophy a little bit better , although it 's not really practical . 
it 's not realistic . 
unless , it 's a toy . 
let 's face it . 
but b m w -s good for that . 
what kind of driving you 'd want to use it for ? 
just work , short trips . no heavy mileage . 
i 'm putting on less than fifteen thousand miles a year . 
so it 's pretty minimal . 
that 's cool . 
lasts a long time . 
that 's mainly what i 'm looking for . 
that 's good . 
i was impressed by the mercedes , too . 
i really like the mercedes . 
but if you have a problem with a mercedes , you take it into a shop , 
they 're going to hit you up for just all kinds of things . 
the factory was nice 
and is it different for the b m w ? 
i think something on the order of a three series , it 's probably different . 
once you get up in the five series and higher , then , all your repair costs go up significantly . 
probably . 
i can imagine that . 
i think they 're a necessary evil . 
i wish the government would operate on the same premise that businesses operate on 
and that is you do n't spend more than you bring in . 
you spend what you have 
i think that , the general idea is to spend , during a time of recession for the deficit spending to help pick up the economy , 
the way they 're running it now , they 're running it under a deficit spending while we 're not under a recession , 
so there 's never any surplus coming in to counter the deficit that we 're running , 
so that 's kind of a basic thing of economics keep spending , keep going into debt , 
you 're not going to payoff what you owe , 
so , i guess the question was more like do you get what you pay for . 
it just depends . 
roads are very expensive commodity 
and so is utilities they supply and police and fire department , 
they need to make a living . 
so , i think for many years we 've paid teachers and police officers and firemen who are to a great extent , public servants , 
we have not paid them really what they 're worth in what they contribute to society . 
i agree with that . 
but then again it 's hard to justify with all the wastefulness of money that the government spends on all levels of , government , including municipalities as well as state and federal governments . 
i guess , 
i 'm a student right now 
and i do n't make a whole lot of money 
and , so , i kind of do n't pay a proportionate amount of taxes compared to what i get , because all my education is state sponsored . 
i go to a state sponsored school 
so i guess i 'm kind of in debt because i do n't been paying taxes all that long . 
my parents however , have contributed to that for the education side of it and everything , 
but i usually end up getting money back . 
you 're very fortunate . 
i am . 
i need it , too , 
we just try not to pay any more in than we have to , 
we pay in a substantial amount . 
we do n't regret paying taxes . 
we do think that sometimes we have a reverse of a regressive tax , a progressive tax . 
and progressive tax does not give people incentive to make more money , 
and what i mean by that , the more income you make , the more tax you pay . 
more taxes you pay . 
it should be a flat percentage 
and that percentage ought to be an equitable amount . 
last year when they passed the tax laws for the nineteen ninety , ninety-one , whatever , nineteen ninety-one , i added up all the taxes that we were going to pay on all these different specific luxury items and travel expenses and everything else , 
and i totaled them all up 
and basically we were going to be paying seventy or eighty percent tax . 
that was the assumption that you spent that same dollar for every item on there even though there 's taxes on different things . 
but there 's a lot of taxes you pay that you 're not even aware of that you 're paying like when you buy a tire , you pay a federal excise tax . 
there 's a lot of hidden taxes . 
you pay gasoline taxes every time you pump something into your tank . 
the income tax is a lot more visible portion of the taxes you pay , i guess . 
but you probably pay more percentage wise in other taxes . 
there was that , 
was it jerry brown , 
one of the democratic candidates had a proposal for doing away with all the tax codes they have now and implementing a flat percentage , something like that . 
if you implemented a flat percentage , it would encourage people to make more money 
and what people need to understand in my opinion , is that businesses create jobs and jobs create income and income pays taxes . 
and , so , if they penalize businesses , business people are smart enough to say , here 's my break point , 
i 'm not going to work any harder and make any more or create any more jobs . 
based on that , who do you think you 're talking to , 
you 're talking to an employer . 
with the issue of trial by jury i actually found the whole question about whether you need a unanimous verdict in a criminal case to be somewhat interesting . 
actually , i agree that that 's an interesting thing . 
i believe for civil suits it 's not unanimous , 
but for criminal suits it 's unanimous by federal law ? 
i do n't know if it 's even true that it 's always unanimous because i thought there were cases where it was okay for a state to have it eleven out of twelve . 
i actually thought i 'd read that , too 
and that 's why i phrased it that way . 
i wonder , 
the difference could be that for state felonies versus federal felonies that things that are under federal jurisdiction require the unanimous vote , 
do you think that that 's an unreasonable requirement that they be unanimous ? 
i 'd be curious as to what the requirement for an acquittal is . 
and i do n't think it would be wrong to say that eleven out of twelve can convict if there were something corresponding saying that if six or seven voted not guilty , then instead of it being a hung jury , that was an acquittal . 
but i do n't know whether you need a unanimous vote of not guilty to acquit . 
that would be an interesting change . 
it fundamentally changes the way the processing occurs because the principle is that the fact that it 's unanimous insures the beyond a reasonable doubt criterion that it increases the likelihood of getting the proper judgment . 
so , i think , if anything , it would have to be a very close to unanimous decision . 
i 'd agree with that . 
but i 've never had the opportunity to serve on a jury , although i 've been out here and registered for about five years . 
actually i thought that that would be very interesting thing to do . 
i would like to do that . 
i 've been out here twenty some years 
and i 've been called three different times , 
but i 've never actually even made it into the jury box . because there have always been a number of people 
and i 've never gotten up there to answer any of the questions . 
i also think that would be really good . 
the people i know who have served have said that usually what ends up happening is that after initially finding out where people stand , that the whole deliberation usually results , if there is something like a nine , three or more severe 
and in fact , i 'm not sure that that 's any more liable to get rid of the reasonable doubt than anything else . 
the one thing that i know does seem to happen from people i 've talked to on this , is that in the situation you just said where it 's nine to three , or some such number , that there starts being a lot of peer pressure going on 
and in some cases if it 's a long trial , the desire of people to get out of there and not be stuck in there for a very long time , that people are changing their minds for the wrong reasons . 
i 'd read one book that , went through and interviewed a bunch of jurors in some of the big cases , and in many cases looking at the evidence afterwards as to whether the decision was right , went back to the jurors based on the deliberations . 
some of them did say that when they were the only one left opposing the verdict everyone was getting on them so heavily that eventually they just gave in knowing that nothing they could do could stop it from either being the verdict everyone else was trying for or a hung jury because the one vote does n't mean anything except the ability to not have a verdict . 
i understand . 
you would hope that if you were in that situation that you 'd have the moral fortitude to hold out if you believed that that was really the proper response . 
i think of the movie twelve angry men . 
you ever seen that movie ? 
once . 
it 's henry fonda 
and it 's eleven to one 
and he 's the one , 
i believe he was opposed to the conviction 
and he held on 
wendy , i guess we get to talk about budgets tonight or lack of budgets if that may be the case and any kind of long term financial planning or anything like that , 
let me ask you the question , 
do you have a monthly budget , or a long term budget that you stick to ? 
right now i 'm in college 
and i 'm on work study 
and so my budget comes from my dad 's help . 
he helps me out a lot 
and i get paid monthly , 
so that 's kind of hard to have a budget . 
my mother does n't get paid much money , 
so her budget is just planning for i r a 's . 
i see , 
i see . 
i 'm kind of in a different situation , 
but i went through that , too , when i was in school , 
but i was working to get through college and , trying to make it through that , 
but i 'm married and have a couple of children 
and we have to pretty much stick to a budget . 
i 'm on a salary 
so i do n't get any overtime or anything like that 
but , we have a fixed income 
and we have to make sure that every dollar we have is spent accordingly 
and what we try and do to stick to our monthly budget is we pretty much have the house payment , 
we have the insurance premiums utilities and so forth 
and we do sit down at the beginning of every month or the end of every month and write down how much we know we 're going to spend and set that money aside , 
and we also try and set aside money for savings , set aside money for the kids ' college education , the future and set aside money for bonds 
and we also set aside an emergency fund 
because we 've been married for about ten years 
that sounds good . 
and we find out that no matter what kind of budget you stick on , there 's always going to be an unexpected car repair or something happen with the house , that you have to have money for and not enough to go and to take a loan out , but you have to have money for . 
whatever 's left over is discretionary income , that we use for the rest of the month , 
and it 's worked out very well . 
it 's helped us , so that we have n't been too long on the month and too short on the money 
and try and stick with that 
that 's good . 
and , nice thing about it , my wife is excellent in that 
we both work together , 
we both have a budget , 
and we stick to it 
and there 's no surprises in that . 
with two kids , that could be hard . 
actually i have four kids . 
four ! 
i said a couple of kids , 
i guess i should have specified , 
i have four little boys , 
four boys . 
you bet . 
you bet . 
it 's just me and my sister . 
and my parents divorced three years ago 
and my sister had gotten through college , 
but i was still in high school , 
and my mother paid for a lot of my sister 's college while my parents were together 
and then before the divorce she had saved for my college . 
but when we had the divorce , she just did n't get much money out of it and had to spend it all on getting another house . 
so now my dad 's paying for all of my college . 
and financial aid and scholarships . 
i 'm a music major , 
so i have auditions coming up . 
what year are you in in college ? 
i 'm a sophomore . 
you 're a sophomore , 
you have a few more years . 
i 'll probably have about , two and a half years left . 
good for you . 
good for you . 
i imagine it is a little difficult to stick with a budget , during school and so forth . 
it sure is . 
i know how much my dad is going to give me every two weeks 
and i do n't spend over that . 
and sometimes that 's a little hard with books and music and sheet music and stuff you 've got to work on , too . 
there 's always music books to buy . 
lab fees and all , 
you 're not a starving artist , yet , are you ? 
i do n't plan on being a starving artist . 
that 's why i 'm in college . 
there 's enough of those in the world ? 
i 'm glad to hear that , wendy . 
that 's usually because they 're not real educated . 
they ca n't afford to have a really good job . 
who 's not very well educated ? 
the starving ones . 
there 's enough out there that if you 're educated enough , then you can make money . 
that 's true , 
that 's true . 
i found that out . 
so that 's why i 'm planning and preparing for the education of my children , also try and set that money aside . 
what did you major in ? 
i majored in business administration . 
you know plenty about planning a budget . 
how many kids do you have ? . 
i think we 're going to talk about parents spending time with their children . 
we , have three children who are eleven , nine , and eight . 
so this is the big issue with us . although i do n't recall marking it on my little things to talk about 
but , perhaps they are little for words to be said like day care and quality time 
anyway . 
you do n't have children ? 
but you 're married ? 
we 've been married for two and a half years . 
we 've been trying for about two years 
but no luck yet . 
hopefully , 
i know we 're not supposed to do this long distance 
but actually i 'm getting a call . 
i wonder if i could possibly take it on call waiting . 
could i ask you to hold one minute ? 
i 'll be right back . 
excuse me , just a moment . 
they 're going to get mad . 
she had another call . 
she has just three kids , eleven , nine , and eight . 
i 'm so sorry . 
that was my daughter 's brownie leader telling me that there is a meeting tomorrow brownie meeting . 
do you have a lot of activities with your kids ? 
i do n't want this to be a unilateral conversation 
but 
we do . 
both my husband and i work 
and our children are sixth , fourth , and third grade . 
and the school years are wonderful , 
they 're just wonderful . 
the kids , they are real people 
and they are interesting 
and , they have all their own activities 
and i think as parents we really enjoy them in our personal situation 
our children have not yet decided to rebel . 
so they 're pretty good kids ? 
i 'm sure that 's coming though . 
but , they are wonderful kids . 
i guess i can talk about us . 
we had nine kids in our family . 
we had eight boys and one girl . 
you had eight boys and one girl ? 
he owned his own business 
so we worked with him most of the time . 
so that 's how we spent most of the time with him . 
are you mormons ? 
that 's the utah and the large family . 
that was a dead giveaway ? 
we 're catholics . 
i came from a family of five . 
i had four brothers , 
the only girl . 
and everyone always asked if the girl got spoiled . 
i never felt spoiled . 
in fact i always thought my toys were destroyed . 
i was going to say , my sister was n't spoiled very much . 
usually busy fighting for survival . 
i do n't know . 
it 's an interesting problem . 
i 'm a pediatrician . 
my husband is a physician , 
so i talk to parents about this a lot . 
i think working mothers or mothers who choose to work outside the home need very early to come to grips with any guilt , that they feel and decide what 's best for them and their family . 
and i feel when my children were very young , i had jobs that helped me be flexible with my schedule and spend time with them and all that sort of thing . 
and i long ago decided i 'm a better mother because i work outside the home . 
i really believe that . 
and it has helped us to afford some things for our children that we could n't otherwise that i think are wonderful particularly at this age , 
and i think our kids are real secure . and have a real sense of priorities and that they can do anything and be anything both male and female 
so i know it sounds like a rationalization 
but i really think it 's true for our family , 
and i think it has worked very well . 
it 's like you said to each his own . 
and we 're planning on having my wife stay home . 
there 's no question , 
i think that 's really the best . 
if a woman is happy doing that , 
i hate to put it quite that way . 
i was twenty-nine when i had my first child 
and i would not have been real fulfilled . 
i really would not have been totally staying home with a young child . 
it 's wonderful to be a mother 
but i like the way i did it . 
i sort of worked half time . 
i had very flexible hours . 
i nursed all three of our children until they were at least a year 
and you can do that despite working very easily which is one of the things i preach all the time to mothers . 
and i think we choose very , very carefully the alternative situations that we had them in . 
some baby-sitting groups , 
again , i know it sounds like a rationalization , 
but i really do think sometimes they very early on are around lots of other children 
and they learn to share . 
they learn not necessarily to be the center of attention 
but at the same time we have to be sure they are secure . 
i think that helps . 
that 's good . 
sounds like you have a handle on it . 
your wife , does she work right now ? 
not right now . 
we just moved down here . 
we used to live up in seattle for a couple of years . 
you 're still trying to dry out ? 
that 's no problem here . 
we really liked it up there 
do you ever think that there 's a crime that 's just so heinous and so bad that the person who commits this crime just does n't deserve to live anymore ? 
that 's a good question . 
there was a point where i would have said , no , that no one would deserve to die for a crime that he committed . 
but since i 've become a parent and since i 've seen things like jeffrey dahlmer , i really have to question that . 
i ca n't conceive of someone being that brutal to that many other people . 
and try and figure out what would be a suitable punishment . 
of the statements made by people against the death penalty i like the statement made by cuomo . 
he 's governor of new york 
but he 's against the death penalty . 
but he said that he would want to seriously hurt or if not kill someone if they did something to his wife . 
but , even in that situation he would hope that there would be people around him who would keep him from doing the things . 
it 's a question of your gut reactions to something like that versus an intelligent reason response . 
and that was the thing that killed dukakis back four years ago when someone asked him a similar question 
and he thought for a second and gave a thoughtful well reasoned reply when people wanted to see if he was going to go for a gut level reaction . 
and i think that the people who are strongly in favor of the death penalty are really working from that gut level . whether it be a biblical force the eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth , a life for a life type logic or just some sort of anger at putting murderers up in federal pens for the rest of their life while we foot the bill . 
are they reformatories , where we 're trying to take people who ca n't survive or that are n't conforming enough to society so that we work well together . 
is it a penal institution ? 
is it designed for punishment ? 
the death penalty surely fits in well in a penal situation where you 're trying to . 
perhaps not in the manner that we do it 
but in theory it fits in . 
in a reformatory , 
if you put someone to death you obviously , ca n't reform them . 
that 's true . 
the other argument is that the death penalty is a deterrent 
and i really do n't agree with that . 
i do n't think anyone who would commit a crime that would get them the death penalty would stop at the moment and say , i was about to kill and dismember this person 
but if they catch me they 're going to kill me 
so i better not do it . 
i just , do n't think that it works that way . 
i do n't think it 's done . 
i do n't think we run it as a deterrent . 
people say that , 
but if it was really a deterrent i think horse thieves in the old west they saw other horse thieves hanging by the necks every once in a while . 
and if it was really seriously going to be a deterrent , i would think that it would be public . 
i do n't think it would be this private thing because nobody ever sees it . 
say some young kids or something like that that might be inclined more towards a life of crime , had to sit and watch and see a guy burn or , something or shot by a firing squad or something like that . 
i do n't know if that would really work that way or not . 
there 's a lot of violence , 
i did forget to ask you . 
what is your name by the way ? 
i 'm ann . 
you 're ann . 
criminal courts ? 
the one of which was something that 's been going on because of the rodney king trial here in town 
and that is the exclusion of jurors because of or in spite of their race . , 
the jury that 's trying the officers in that case , is an all white panel . 
and there 's been a lot made in the local papers of that , fact . 
i see . 
i 'm a little surprised they did n't get a change of venue on that one . 
they have . 
they have . 
they moved it up to the county north of here . 
it 's in ventura 
and there 's still quite a bit of publicity obviously , 
that videotape was just horrible . 
it was everywhere . 
and i think it would be very difficult to find a panel that would not have seen it and known of what was going on . 
i agree with you 
but i ca n't imagine that they would do an all white jury without having some sort of , appeal on not having a jury of his peers and all of that kind of stuff . 
i 'm kind of torn on this issue . 
it 's like they 're saying on the one hand he 's not getting a jury of his peers which is in some ways true . 
but on the other hand , it 's also saying that white jurors are not going to convict . 
based on fact . 
how interesting . 
what 's the prevailing thought within the community ? 
what the news media is going to make of it , 
but what about the community ? 
i guess it depends on who you talk to . 
i have n't talked to a whole lot of black people on it 
but i rather imagine there 's some snickering about it . and a lot of the usually fatalistic here we go again folks , kind of stuff . 
that ca n't be good for los angeles either . 
on the one hand you almost hope that they convict them because they have that very strong piece of physical evidence showing , these people beating the heck out of this guy . 
unfortunately that kind of thing is not limited to a big city like los angeles . 
you 're going to have it just about anywhere . 
but that 's interesting . 
what about the judge who 's hearing the case ? 
is he going to be impartial ? 
is he going to , be a good adjudicator ? 
i do n't know , 
and again there 's something else along those lines . 
there was a girl out here named latausha harlins . 
i do n't know if it 's got as much notoriety 
but it 's rather almost as infamous here as it was with the rodney king problem . 
a girl walked into a korean owned store 
and she had a dispute , black girl . 
she had some kind of a dispute over some orange juice with the owner of the store . 
the owner of the store popped her . 
the criminal case went up 
and the judge gave the woman who shot the girl practically a suspended sentence . 
she gave her no time in jail all of these things 
to get that judge recalled i would think . 
that 's almost when you kind of wish that there where standardized sentences . 
it would make life easier . 
it would . 
the whole world would know what you were facing . 
i used to work in a day care center . 
i worked in all the different areas of the day care center 
and they can be deceiving to people . 
i did not work there long because i could n't handle the treatment that the children got , 
and this is supposed to be a very well-known center here in tyler who had two or three centers , all over the city 
and they would be one way when the parents were there and be another way when the parents left . 
i think if you do day care centers you should make frequent checks to check in on them when they 're not expecting it . 
because they do , do things differently when you 're not around , 
i know , 
the things that we kind of looked at is you want to see how many teachers you have . and how many kids they have and how they break it up . 
because we had one that sounds kind of like what you were in . 
it was a really good one , 
and in fact , it worked out for us because we kind of bartered . 
my wife did artwork for them 
so we got our day care free . 
but they did n't have enough teachers 
this one was set up good . 
they had two teachers to every room . , sometimes three . 
and they had a good system so when you walked in , everything looks cool . 
the problem i had was that they did not show affection to the children enough . 
they did not show them care to these small children who are being left . 
one time i picked up this little boy who was crying 
and the owner came and just chewed me up one side down the other , 
he said you are going to have every child in here wanting you to pick them up . 
and i said , no , 
this child was crying and needed some comfort , 
what is your problem . 
because i think that 's one thing that was important . 
they did , 
they had the crawlers , the babies that did n't walk in one room . the ones that were starting to walk in one room . 
then they had the three year olds , upper fours , lower fours , upper fives , lower fives just like that . 
they really did separate them well . 
it was just the teachers themselves . 
it sounds like to me your concern would be to make sure that they are loving people . . affectionate people that they 're may be parents themselves or something . 
their system , 
but their system was great 
but the caring just was n't there . 
the one woman that did the babies . i worked with her 
and she was fabulous . 
she loved them babies , 
and she loved them and cared for them . 
but every one of the others that i saw was just screaming and yelling and would make me a nervous wreck , 
i think that 's probably a really important thing because you can have doctorates and p h d 's and all that kind of thing and know all the technical stuff , 
but if they do n't reach out and touch the kids , then that does n't do any good . 
they 're just there going through this routine , which is lousy . 
the other group that we had was kind of interesting . 
the other one we went to it was a husband and wife team 
and we knew them from other associations 
but it was kind of interesting because she was kind of the strict one , 
and i think she 'd put her arm around the kids and talk to them and stuff , 
but he was actually the more , demonstrative type . the more loving 
he would laugh with the kids and play with the kids 
and it was kind of interesting to see that it was actually the man in the group that did that side of it . 
you do n't see that much . 
so they had a really nice balance . 
we liked that one . 
in fact , it was called humpty dumpty play school or something , 
that 's cute . 
but they also did some of the teaching things 
obedience was important . 
that has to be with a day care center . 
you probably heard where you stand in front of the clock and get your power back to control yourself . 
i 've never heard of that . 
that 's a new one , on me . 
i ca n't remember what they call it actually 
but you just stand them in front of a clock 
and it has a second-hand that goes around . 
and they have to stand there , 
what do you feel about the present situation in the mideast ? 
it looks like it 's just about as volatile as it usually is . 
what do you think , mark ? 
i agree . 
i think there 's definitely been some changes , 
and i think the , end of the soviet union will definitely have its effect on the situation . 
basically since the end of world war two there was always that little proxy war going on with the u s funding israel and the soviet union funding the arab countries . 
and then we 'll see what happens when they 're not funded quite as much . or supplied with arms the same way . 
but on the same token israel has lost a lot of their value to the u s in being the foothold of capitalism in the mideast . 
we tend to be pretty strong supporters of israel ourselves , 
we kind of cringe when they make mistakes but yet overall tend to support them . 
but , i think one of the most interesting things to me recently during the war in kuwait was the fact that they did not retaliate , for the scud missiles that were launched there . 
that just seemed to me to be a phenomenal demonstration of restraint , 
and it must have reflected some awful good diplomacy on the part of the u s . 
but on the other hand they would have had a hard time retaliating because they would n't have been given access to the friend or foe codes . 
i see . 
they would have had to fly through two enemies . 
you do n't think they got the codes from the u s already ? 
the u s would claim that they would have not given them to them . 
i see . 
that 's true . 
they can , 
what about this situation with the , continual harassment by iraq right now and apparently failing to let the arms inspectors have free access . 
i pretty much question what the u s -s motives were in actually the original involvement . 
the cynical side of me says that it was more for the domestic political situation than for anything else and for portraying bush is a strong president . 
my gut feeling is that , he pretty much picked the fight with , hussein . 
i 'm not saying at all that hussein was n't quite willing to enter that fight . 
but i think that , we chose to have our official feelings hurt . 
do you think that we should ignore it and just allowed him to go ahead and move on into kuwait and see what happens ? 
i think that in the past we 've allowed lots of things like that to happen . 
i think there were a lot more demographic related interests involved than true foreign policy interests . 
may have been . 
i 'm not saying that that 's not the case . 
i do n't foresee bush making the decision to invest a lot of manpower and money in fighting a second battle . 
over what probably wo n't accomplish much for him politically . 
it does n't look like we 're getting ready to do much more in there . 
even at this point . 
do you have any views on israel 's relation to the u s ? 
do you , think we ought to back off on our support of the country 
i have very fixed feelings about israel . 
what 's our topic ? 
taxes . 
taxes . 
do we pay too much ? 
do we ? 
what do you do ? 
it all depends really on what kind of bracket you 're in . 
my tax bracket is pretty high up there . 
i generally pay the maximum tax bracket . 
and i think that we 're paying too much 
because i do n't have any children . 
and i pay a lot of property taxes . 
i do n't use an awful lot of city services . 
it 's like i have to work all the time just to make enough money to pay the taxes . 
and there 's so many people who want a dib of the federal money or the state money or whatever it is 
many times i end up feeling like i 'm paying too much in taxes . 
how about you ? 
do you pay too much ? 
i ca n't really complain . 
i 'm a student , 
and i work as a co-op at georgia tech research institute . 
and i 'm going to get back most of what i pay in taxes 
and , one of my parents is still claiming me . 
when you go out into the working world it changes quickly . 
i 'm sure . 
you look at your paycheck 
and you go , where did it all go . 
have you 
have you been out working and then gone back to school 
or did you go directly from high school into college ? 
i did work for some time 
but i did n't make enough money to really make , too much of a difference . 
to worry about it . 
have you been active in politics concerning this ? 
have you worked on political action committees or something like that ? 
i have n't . 
i have n't done any of that type of work myself . 
congress has added too towards the members bank there , 
there 's a bank that they all bank with , 
and i guess it went defunct recently . 
and one of the congressmen has written in the last three years about a thousand bad checks . 
and we the taxpayers float him a loan for all those bad checks , 
no interest , 
no repayment schedule . 
and it 's causing quite a stir up here , because we 're so close to d c anyway . 
it 's really kind of curious to watch this thing occur . 
i think we pay too much . 
and i look at my paycheck 
let 's see . 
i think i pay forty-two percent . 
forty-two cents out of every dollar i make goes to the government , 
and then they charge me sales tax 
and they charge me gasoline taxes , 
taxes . 
and they charge me all these others , 
and it 's just too expensive . 
i ca n't believe that 
i 'm just thankful that i do n't get all the government that i pay for . 
you know what i mean ? 
have you used student loans and things like that that were guaranteed by the government ? 
i have n't . 
my father pays for my tuition . 
so i have n't made use of that . 
what are you studying down there ? 
physics . 
physics . 
that sounds like a fun field . 
everybody says that . 
scientific . 
heavy science . 
are you in the particle research or anything like that 
or is it more applied physics ? 
i have n't gotten too terribly much into my major yet . 
actually the degree i 'm getting is physics . 
there 's a different one for applied physics 
so i guess you could call it more straight stuff than applied . 
maybe you can figure out how we can stop this inertia that 's come rolling towards , whatever it 's rolling toward . 
i doubt about that . 
are we pretty steep compared to most countries ? 
actually , i do n't think we are . 
i do n't think so either . 
europe england . i know the taxes are a lot higher . 
but they do have socialized medicine and things like that . 
are you working right now ? 
i am . 
i 'm working in the computer science department here at c m u . 
what kind of work do you do ? 
i 'm doing basically system design work and implementation work for the speech group , here . 
is that how you heard about this thing ? . 
actually through electronic mail . 
me too . 
i work at the georgia tech research institute . 
i 'm a co-op student 
so i work and go to school about halftime . 
and i really do n't have any job benefits to speak of . 
i do n't know , 
they just kind of forget us on that end . 
we do n't really have any vacation or sick days or health care or anything really 
so it 's pretty fair they 've got you slaving away , at this point . 
what about you ? 
i 'm research stuff here now 
so they have okay , benefits package . 
it 's not quite as good as industry 
but one of the significant benefits here is that you can take up to two courses a semester , 
and they pay for the classes . 
so , carnegie mellon that works out to be a reasonable benefit . 
they do that if you 're research here 
then i know of some of the people that have gotten their masters 
and i think that they might pay for that . pay for the classes and stuff 
but i know they 'll let you decrease how many hours you work by kind of percentage . 
they 'll let you work halftime if you want to finish , 
if you want to , do it quickly . 
they 'll let you , decrease your number of hours by any percentage just about 
and then , i think of course with your extra degrees you get a pay raise due 
so that will probably help out . 
but , do you get any kind of health care type stuff ? 
so i do n't know in terms of other things , other benefits other than sort of monetary 
we do . 
we have to contribute a certain amount to it . 
and it 's kind of split between c m u and , the employee . 
i think that 's a pretty important part of it there because that can be really expensive if you ever have any health problems . 
i 'm still covered with my dad 's health plan where he works , 
but it would definitely be something to look into once i get my own . 
like everywhere else here in pittsburgh the health care rates are going up pretty quickly . 
that 's a whole other topic to begin with too 
they have . 
but you are right . 
i really agree that , that 's pretty important . 
i 'm learning and stuff because , i 'm in school . 
but there 's some weird law where student employees working for the government do n't have to pay social security tax . 
though that 's about , five percent right there 
that 's a big win . 
that 's about the only real bonus 
so i have to take that into consideration when i evaluate how much i get paid real because if i was working somewhere else i 'd have to pay an extra five percent , or so . 
and they 've just raised the income caps on social security to the point where you have to be pretty well off before you stop paying that as well . 
so that kind of helps out in terms of keeping up-to-date with contacts in industry . 
in case you ever need to bail out . 
around here it 's like we pretty much work from project to project with different sponsors . 
mike , what are your opinions on trial by jury ? 
i work for an insurance company 
so i see a lot of verdicts that are pretty crazily decided . by juries particularly , 
and i know in england the judges set all of the awards . 
juries will decide the guilt or innocence , 
but then they leave the awards up to more learned people . 
that seems to make sense 
each individual jury really does n't have any perception of what if you will the going , award should be for a certain type of case within some kind of range . 
when you get one way out like that 
but then really does n't wind up penalizing the person that they went after . 
who it really penalizes is their insurance company which then translates into higher rates for all of us . if they get some of those mega awards against them . 
they 're not going to sit there and lose money . 
if they are losing money , then they 're going to raise rates . 
so it all comes filtering down to us all individually . 
and granted some people need to be compensated if they have really been wronged . 
how do you feel about setting for example , some incident where someone loses a limb . 
do you think the jury should have a dollar figure for losing an arm , a dollar figure for losing different body parts ? 
i do n't know . 
some of the health insurance is written that way that if you buy an accident and death or dismemberment policy it , pre specified in the policy so much 
but i do n't know that you can necessarily put a value on somebody 's limb arbitrarily that is always going to fit in all cases . 
i think maybe you look at the age of the person and their station in life and , how much longer they have of work years that they would have to put up with that . 
maybe you do n't award an eighty-five year old guy the same thing that you would award a twenty-one year old . 
i think it has to be some kind of common sense applied there . 
and there may be where the judiciary is a little more learned about that type of thing because they can be schooled in that kind of thing , 
and that can be part of continuing education , maybe for judges . 
i do n't know . . 
that 's true . 
if it 's a company , you know that they 're insured . 
unless the award is so staggering that it goes all beyond their layers of insurance which is another pet peeve of mine when they do award punitive damages , 
i think those should be uninsurable . 
i think those should have to be paid by the corporation itself that did the damage . 
as opposed to the insurance paying the bills , 
for honest mistakes where they 've done something and something happens . 
one of their employees causes damage or something . 
that 's what they buy insurance for . 
do they get insured from other insurance companies 
or how does that work ? 
i was just talking about any company . 
let 's just say a lumber manufacturing company 
and somebody is on the premises 
and one of the employees actually is driving by with a forklift 
and he pushes the wrong button 
and he drops a load of lumber on somebody 
and it injures , them . 
insurance should pay for that . 
but in some instances you 're going to put companies out of business by taking that stance , if they have to take it out of their own retained earnings . 
i 'm not talking about any loss . 
the juries are awarding damages these days based on the person 's actual injuries and what they are due . 
and then they are awarding a second amount as punishment to the company which is usually a lot less . 
but it 's an amount , designed to sting them a little for gross wanton negligence in a claim . 
lately the courts have been deciding that those could be paid for by insurance too . 
so again , it never really penalizes , the company doing the wrong . 
they can go right on doing the same old thing they always used to . 
i 'm not talking about your isolated occurrences , 
i 'm talking more about the thing that they know , 
maybe they 're willfully manufacturing something that they know is hurting people out there 
and they continue to do it even after they become aware of that . 
then i think they ought to have to pay something out of their own pocket . 
before a couple of years ago , i had a very narrow view of nursing homes 
and it was more like a funeral home . 
i always joked around about it being a funeral home and not really a nursing home . 
and then i had to do some volunteer work here in tyler , texas 
and i went to one 
and it just had a very good activities director . 
everyone was cheerful 
and now i do n't have such a bad view of nursing homes anymore . 
but i certainly would n't want to send my parent unless it was an absolute last resort . 
i have a sister that is in nursing school 
and she 's real interested in geriatrics . 
that sounds good . 
she 's real interested in what ann richards has been doing . 
ann richards is really cracking down on the nursing homes 
and , you would n't know anything about a texas governor . 
i 've heard the name 
and that 's about all . 
ann richards is our governor in texas 
and she 's really cracking down on restrictions and what goes on in nursing homes . 
and my sister 's real interested in that and getting into that side of nursing . 
that 's one problem with the nursing home environment . 
the elderly , even out of the nursing home , are very open to abuse . 
they do n't always have their full wits about them . 
they 're not completely up on what should be going on or what 's not going on . 
and it can be pretty sad . 
i 've had a grandmother who had a stroke . 
and she was in a nursing home for four or five years before she died . 
and it 's the type of thing that she was living down in florida . 
my families was up in maryland 
and the other part of her family was up in new york state . 
and it was very difficult for either them or my grandfather to take care of her since she could not do very much for herself after the stroke . 
and the nursing home was the best facility to put her in besides moving her up which is not a practical solution since both my parents work 
you essentially need to have someone taking care of the person full-time . 
it 's a necessary evil i think . 
it sure is . 
and some of the really nice ones that really take care of their people are so expensive . cause they can afford to hire the people that are really going to care for the older . 
you get one person who 's a little bit dishonest working in there 
and the elderly sometimes have a lot of jewelry and other stuff that just very easily tends to disappear in the nursing homes . 
my grandfather passed away several years ago . 
i was much younger . 
but he was in the nursing home the last several years of his life 
and someone visited him every day . 
my grandmother did . 
but if she could n't , someone visited him every day . 
it was in a very small town nursing home . 
and people did n't get paid much there at all . 
they did n't care about what went on . 
they would let a patient get a lot of bed sores . 
and the people living in the nursing home would have all kinds of needs that would n't get met because they were just old people . 
and then , the nurses and doctors really did n't put forth any loving care for them . 
it 's like a newborn baby . 
you need to have twenty-four hour care answering all the needs cause they ca n't do much for themselves at certain points . 
and nurses get so worn down . 
the elderly are very complaining because they remember the way that things used to be . and remember being able to do things for themselves which they no longer can . 
and they feel pretty helpless . 
and it , very , very hard for them to accept that . 
we just moved my grandfather into , not a nursing home but a transitional type facility . 
is it like a retirement center ? 
more of a retirement home . 
he 's got his own efficiency apartment . 
and they provide one meal a day . 
and the rest of the housekeeping and other meals a day are up to him . 
but they do have group activities going on . 
how 's he handling that ? 
he 'd much rather be living alone in his apartment down in florida . 
to move into that facility we moved him from florida up to maryland 
and it 's a bit of a shock to the system , weather-wise , if nothing else . 
there was n't anything like that , that you could do in florida ? 
there was stuff like that in florida 
what were you saying ? 
i think we 're started now . 
do you want to go ahead and start ? 
i have n't really been up to date on a lot of music . 
i 've been in school 
and i have n't really gone out , and bought any or listened to much on the radio except for classical 
you like classical music ? 
i like classical music . 
i like rock and roll . 
i like country and western . 
i like all kinds . 
i like different things about each one of them . 
i like most of them except for country music . 
you do n't like country ? 
i think i might like dancing to it 
but i do n't like listening to it . 
the kind of country i like is kind of the older country music . not the kind like kenny rodgers and stuff like that . 
they 're trying to make it too much of a crossover thing , 
you know what i mean ? 
what 's the old country music like ? 
like hank williams . 
like the old hank williams . 
even hank williams , junior is real good stuff . 
this stuff , makes you cry it sounds so sad . 
that 's the kind you like you mean ? 
sometimes i do . 
not all the time . 
i guess i like the blues a lot 
and i guess you could say it 's similar as far as the way they do it . 
and i do too . 
i also like jazz . 
me too . 
except heavy metal 
and most rap i do n't like . 
you 're about like i am then . 
i ca n't , watch m t v anymore . 
i used to love m t v . 
and i can barely watch anymore because they have this heavy metal stuff on there 
and i ca n't like that . 
and i liked aerosmith and led zepplin and , van halen . 
i like groups like that . 
i even like guns and roses , some of their stuff . 
but some of these groups now like slaughter . 
i really have n't listened to that . 
some of them are just really rough . 
i 'm surprised you did n't go to any parties or anything where they were playing a lot of music or stuff 
i used to a long time ago 
but since i 've started back into school now , i have n't really done that much . 
i 've been pretty busy . 
so 
i have n't . 
i used to go out and dance a lot 
but i do n't do that anymore either . 
i see . 
are you married at all ? 
i 've just been real busy with lots of other things . 
how old are you ? 
twenty-eight . 
you went to school for awhile and quit . then went back . 
i went to school and got a degree 
and then i worked for awhile . 
and then i started back a year and a half ago . 
changed directions . 
how old are you ? 
i 'm twenty-eight . 
i was born in sixty-three . 
i guess we 're the same age then . 
and i did n't really start getting into music until i went to college because my parents did n't really have music in the house . 
put it that way . 
were they religious ? 
i see . 
i 'm always behind . 
i 'm never really up to date on all that stuff . 
but i know what i like when i like a sound . a certain kind of sound , 
my parents were very musical . 
my mother had a piano in the house . 
my father likes country western music . 
he 's from west virginia . 
so that 's what he grew up listening to . 
and he 's always liked it 
and , he 's probably about fifty-three years old now , 
so he grew up in the late fifties when they had the elvis presley music and stuff like that . and that kind of rock and roll 
so he likes that . 
and my mom always liked that kind of stuff . 
my mom likes doris day . 
she always had these old doris day records and stuff like that , though . 
i grew up listening to that stuff . 
but i could see why you were kind of sheltered from music . 
i do play the piano . 
but i like the early seventies , late sixties rock . kind of stuff , the old stuff . 
so do i . 
do you like van halen or anything like that ? 
or how about brian adams ? 
what songs does he play ? 
this love cuts like a knife . summer of sixty-nine . 
i think i 've heard summer of sixty-nine . 
he sings that . 
he 's from canada . 
i 'm not very good at remembering the titles , 
the titles and artists . 
but i can remember the song . 
do you watch music television , m t v at all ? or v h one ? 
i do n't watch t v much at all . 
do you get cable ? 
you have to get cable to get those stations anyhow . 
but . 
i like to watch rock and roll videos and any kind of videos . 
i like watching that kind of thing . 
do you like someone recent ? like enya ? 
have you ever head of her . 
she 's not rock 
but she 's from ireland . 
i have n't heard her . 
and she 's been on the top ten or whatever . 
do you happen to be working for a large firm ? 
it 's about three hundred and fifty people . 
i guess that 's not large compared to some , 
but it 's big enough . 
and they do n't have any kind of pension plan where they contribute anything 
and i wish they did . 
they have a four o one k , 
but i put all the money into it . 
they do n't add anything . 
what about you ? 
i work for a fairly large company . 
it 's got eight thousand people . 
and we do have health insurance . 
we do n't have four o one k plan , stuff like that , 
but we do have retirement . 
they kind of match up to , you , 
if you put six percent , they match up to six percent , 
and then the rest is whatever you want to put in . if you put more than that or something like that . 
that 's a pretty good deal . 
it 's not bad . 
now , how long does it take for your contribution to vest ? 
i do n't know . 
it 's probably a long time . 
i 'm sure it 's not till twenty-five years , thirty years . 
the place i work at 's , health insurance is kind of expensive . 
it 's hundred bucks a month or something for a family . 
i guess what we have is what they call a flex benefits plan where you get a certain amount of dollars and then you spend it on a cafeteria of whatever you want or need . 
otherwise guess you can hold money back and then either use or lose it or can just have that money put in your paycheck . 
we have one of those use it or lose it plans , too , where they 'll basically pay for child care type expenses . 
i can send in a request for payment 
and they 'll send me a check for the amount they withheld . 
that 's pretty good . 
it saves a third off on taxes or something . 
it depends on which company you work for . 
i know that the one plan that everyone seems to be in , in my place is plan d . 
deductibles are really high , 
it 's fifteen hundred dollars , 
but if you go for the other ones you 're paying too much money for them because if you 're relatively , healthy , then it 's really unlikely that you 'd use that amount of money . 
so , someone did start a cost benefit analysis , 
and ends up the best is to take a high deductible and take a loss , whatever it happens to be , if you happen to be a healthy individual . 
i guess , 
on the other hand i had a similar health plan 
and one of my kids was in a car accident 
you mean , not even your car insurance ? 
it got all screwed up because i had a high deductible on the health insurance , 
no fault here , 
and i had a high deductible on the car insurance 
and then we just goofed up the medical insurance and the car insurance and stuff and blew it . 
that 's too bad . 
i do n't know , 
i think other than health insurance an extra week of time off would be nice . 
i only get two weeks . 
my place you get two weeks when you start 
and then every year they give you an extra day until you 've got four weeks . 
that 's nice . 
we do n't get them till your seventh year of service till you get an extra week . 
that 's a long time . 
especially in the kind of engineering job i 'm in companies do n't stay afloat that long , 
with the telecommunications type of company , supposedly you , used to be much more stable . 
it 's a lot less stable than it used to be . 
they used to have job security crap , 
but now they do n't . 
you work for bell or something like that ? 
i do n't know , 
a lifelong job security 
telephone pioneers of america , 
all that stuff . 
i do n't think so . 
they 're always laying people off , which is another benefit that you can have other than salary is trade that off for security . 
they must have pretty good severance , though ? 
i do n't know , 
we have n't been doing layoffs . 
we 've been doing down sizing with getting rid of extra layers of management . 
and i do n't know what they do for those people . 
mean the management they get rid of ? 
some of it , 
there 's too many chiefs and not enough indians 
mark , our situation is that we do have a daughter that is in the situation of choosing college . 
she 's actually at bible college for this current year . 
and i guess first and foremost , really it 's a question of what the student wants to have in the way of a career and then which colleges or universities can best offer that program , 
and then it comes down to the dollar . 
it 's whether or not you 're a resident for that jurisdiction , 
it comes down to trying to come with a trade off of the costs . 
i agree pretty much with everything you 've said . 
the one thing that i 'd advise any parent or any person looking for a college is that i think , it 's really important for them to actually visit the college and actually try and get away from the guided tour of the college and try and talk to the actual students there 
the lifestyle pictured in the catalogs is n't always the whole story . 
the catalogs are sales material . 
it does n't matter whether they 're selling school . 
and , it really is helpful if a parent and the student can get there and see the real character of the school and the real life experiences of the school . 
at least , the university here in saskatoon is primarily off campus resident students . 
they just live in the community . 
i know that there are a lot of colleges and universities , particularly as they get to be a little bit on the smaller side where dormitory life is right on campus as well 
and that changes the character of it quite a bit . 
i go to georgia tech which is primarily an engineering school 
it tends to be a very conservative school 
and there does n't seem to be the diversity of views that a lot of universities will have . 
i guess we 're here , 
this is the university that has , for years had the car , that will travel the farthest on a small quantity of gas , 
our engineering students . 
in competitions 
and that 's the kind of thing that also if you can see the kinds of achievements that have been made by students as well as graduates can give you idea of the character of the school . 
in one sense , whether you 've got a spirit of innovation and excellence or whether you 've got a spirit of producing graduates . 
as sort of some development and some training 
it 's easy enough to crank out graduates , 
but to really challenge them 
and that can vary between colleges , and faculties even , as to what the attitude towards achievement is . 
do you have anyone that you 're seriously needing to feed information to ? 
i suppose if you 're actually at georgia tech as a student , you 're a ways away from that . 
i do n't really know of anyone that 's looking for colleges now with the exception of people 's younger brothers and sisters . 
then the only advise passed down is , do n't go to georgia tech . 
but 
actually i 'm more interested in choosing the right job when you graduate type information . 
that 's really , a valid point that people need to consider as well . 
going to university is going to take four to eight years depending on the programs person 's involved in 
program . 
and after that , you have to be out in the real world and have to be able to support yourself 
and if you go in an area that there is just not much of a job market 
like a fine arts education , 
best training in the world is not going to put food on your table . 
what do you think about recycling programs in atlanta , julie ? 
the recycling program here is just terrible . 
it 's hard to find places to go . 
kroger does a couple things . 
do they do newspapers ? 
i do n't know , 
there 's big bins out there , 
i really do n't know what the details are . 
there should be someplace where you could call and find out . 
as a matter of fact , i 'm pretty sure there 's a place you can call and find out the closest thing to you , 
but , i think there should be some kind of curbside service . 
the one in florida is so cool because they pick up everything . 
they pick up newspapers and milk jugs and aluminum and tin cans like soup comes in and stuff . 
they pick up everything . 
they all have shopping carts and stuff 
and they go around and collect cans and aluminum and stuff , 
and so we used to just save them up 
and then they 'd come around 
and we 'd give them to them . 
during the winter time they move south or something 
so , i do n't do that anymore . 
and the recycling at georgia tech , like that outside the student center they never empty those things . 
i know it , 
i know it . 
they just overflow . 
it piles up . 
what 's a guy to do . i asked myself . 
i just do n't know . 
i just do n't know 
and now they have bins and stuff that are a little more convenient because until seven o'clock , you got to pay to park at the student center , 
you ca n't really unload all your stuff . 
that 's true , 
had n't thought about that . 
that is very inconvenient . 
inconvenient , even . 
i know it , 
i know it . 
you do recycle , do n't you ? 
i 'm kind of bad about it . 
if i see a pile of cans or bottles or something i 'll throw it in there , 
but i do n't ever take anything . 
you ought to , because the farmer 's market recycles absolutely everything . 
but wait 
i 've never seen you before . 
who are you ? 
by the way , may name 's julie . 
my name 's bill . 
i 'm from atlanta . 
me , too . 
is there anything else you 'd like to share about your recycling philosophy , julie ? 
i just think that everybody ought to do it . 
what kind of plastic stuff can you recycle , 
do you know ? 
the only thing i know that you can recycle is milk jugs . 
what about those grocery bags ? 
now that i do n't go to the grocery store much , it 's kind of moot , 
but i used to just save up the ones that i got one time and then go and hand them to them the next time and use them over and over . 
but , also most places big star does 
and i 'm not sure if kroger does or not 
they 'll ask you whether you want bags or paper or plastic . 
and they have little boxes that you can put your old bags in . 
can bring them in . 
those petroleum products are going to kill us . 
i know it , 
i know it . 
the hostile planet julie . 
it really is a small , hostile planet . 
those petroleum products are the great satan of the recycling . 
did you know that , 
really not . 
did you know that something like fifty percent of the world 's landfills is filled with paper . 
paper just seems so innocuous . 
paper does n't seem threatening at all . 
it is , though . 
it comes from trees . 
how can it be bad ? 
they treat it with chemicals or something ? 
why ca n't trees break down ? 
i do n't get it . 
they do treat paper with chemicals 
yellow paper takes something like twenty times as long to decompose . 
you can bury a piece of yellow paper , 
it will still be there in a couple of weeks . 
it will be whole . 
you 'll be able to read off of it . 
i 'm going to switch from those yellow legal pads , then . 
i 'm glad you told me that , because i use those at work , where i work 
but i can just forget that from now on . 
i 'm going to switch to the white ones . 
white paper 's bad too . 
they treat it , too . 
what about papyrus made out of bamboo stuff , from the banks of the nile . 
i 'm sure that 's fine . 
i 'm sure . 
maybe we ought to just start carving in stone again . 
you think so ? 
maybe . 
tablets ? 
i think we should just abandon the written word altogether . 
you think ? 
i do n't know , 
what do you think ? 
everybody has a computer . 
kind of radical , i know 
we would no longer need paper at all . 
that 's true . 
everyone had a two way wrist watch t v -s on their wrist , like dick tracy . 
i would love that . 
do you think you get good coverage from the sources that you have ? 
actually 
because i 'm in school . i kind of miss out on most of the current events . 
i just catch the major ones off the news or if someone starts to talk about it . 
do you watch a lot of t v to get the news then ? 
i do n't watch a lot of it , 
basically that 's my only major source of information . 
what about you ? 
i get a bunch of different things . 
i get a newspaper every day 
and i try to at least have a few minutes to look through that 
i get a newsweek every week which i pretty much read that cover to cover 
that satisfies most of the short term news i get . 
do n't watch much t v , 
do n't have enough time 
and do n't listen to the radio too much especially the news channels or anything like that , 
they might give you a little blurbs like this happened or that happened 
and that 's about all i ever hear of it . 
but most of my news probably comes from newsweek 
the news is n't immediate what you 'd generally think of as news , 
but it 's recent material . 
and it 's more in depth . 
it is more in depth , less broad . 
actually , it probably is n't less broad , 
but it 's just more in depth 
and it is more just significant information . 
it is the big events , not the little events . 
not the fact that there was a big auto accident down on the corner of broad and main . 
i know , 
where they 're just trying to fill in . 
or they 're making time because they . 
i get kind of bored watching t v actually , when i watch the news on t v because it goes so slow 
i know , 
i do , too . 
and , then there 's nothing that really is so exciting . 
you may find one little news item interesting 
so you have to wait twenty minutes to hear about it . 
that 's about what it ends up being . 
listen to the news to hear the traffic report or something . 
actually , you mention newsweek , 
i do like u s news and world report . 
i do n't get to read it as much as i like , 
but i think that 's a good magazine . 
i think they 're about the same . 
they certainly have a very similar charter at least in my mind . 
and what kind of news normally interests you , 
what do you find interesting versus what do you find boring ? 
right now trying to keep abreast of what 's going on in europe with all the , u s s r 's satellites breaking off , trying to become independent and european community coming together . 
that 's going to affect our economy quite a bit . 
i think it will , 
they keep claiming it 's going to have a big influence , 
but we 've yet to see it 
it 's real short term yet , though , 
it 's only been , three months or something like that since that happened 
but they like to tell us that it 's going to be important . 
i 'm pretty sure it is , because once europe becomes unified and their economy becomes one big economy we 're going to be kind of hurting . 
i think it is , too . 
i think that 's a possibility , 
we might also be helped , though , because it will be easier to do business over there , too . 
definitely . 
for the companies that already have a presence over there 
and i know of at least one company that specifically went over there and established a presence before nineteen ninety-two so that they would have it when it came time . 
so they have a toe hold , 
good toe hold . 
because once you 're in there , then you can easily expand . 
but getting in after nineteen ninety-two is more difficult . 
because , when they first start off , they 're going to be highly protectionist 
and there 's already a lot of evidence that they are being very protectionist , 
even amongst themselves , they 're being somewhat protectionist . 
england does n't want to do one thing 
and sweden does n't want to do other thing 
and they 've all got their own reasons which have to be resolved yet . 
i 'm sure within those people 's minds , it 's quite justified . 
i can understand their viewpoint , 
they 're starting off , 
their economy 's a little bit weak , 
before they open up their borders to everyone . 
do you watch anything with sports or anything like that ? 
actually i 'm not really into sports . 
my roommates are , 
so , unfortunately , i forced to watch quite a bit of sports . 
against your will . 
we have to , fight over the remote control . 
at least you guys have a remote control . 
it 's sometimes better to not have one of those . 
course , you can always misplace it , not mislocate it , but misplace it 
i do n't think anybody pays too little . 
i would tend to agree very highly . 
i think that we 're all paying a little bit too much taxes and not seeing too much good come out of it . 
do you get hit up for local taxes there ? 
we sure do . 
here in indiana we pay county income tax , state income tax , 
we pay five percent sales tax , 
you name it , they tax it . 
so you get the whole smorgasbord . 
that 's right 
i actually live in new hampshire 
tax free or die . 
which is probably pretty nice , 
but i 'll bet that means your state sales tax is pretty high . 
actually there 's no sales tax in new hampshire either . 
there 's no sales tax either ? 
what there is , is very high property taxes because that 's how they fund schools and everything . 
the only problem is i work in massachusetts , 
so they hit me up for the five percent there . 
taxachusetts 
it 's only a state tax here , no local . 
we 've got a five percent sales tax . 
but the problem is that i 'm paying state tax even if i do n't live here . 
but , at least on things like stock options and things like that , they do n't tax me . 
so that 's not too bad . 
i really think that , here in indiana at least we pay just too much tax . 
i worked in a factory last summer 
and , on the average , i was losing twenty percent of every paycheck to taxes 
and i do n't feel that i really get a whole lot of return from that . 
i do n't utilize any government welfare services . 
of course , i drive on the roads 
and i went to the schools and stuff , 
but i really feel that i 'm just getting overtaxed . 
i 'd consider twenty percent lucky because when you figure out just on feds i actually hit the thirty-one bracket this year , which was no fun . 
that 's not any fun . 
most people forget about them , because you ca n't always get your f i c a back at the end of the year . 
and then , a five percent surtax , 
i 'm paying forty percent tax . 
which is just outrageous 
and if you look at the way the government is run these days , it just seems like a lot of it 's going to waste . 
i think there , certainly are some things where you need infrastructure 
there are things government does better , 
i think government does a better space program than you 're going to get out of private individuals , 
but i think you look at things like tax subsidies to tobacco farmers because jesse helms wants it that way 
that 's right , 
got to keep those farmers happy . 
they are a fat . 
i think the military is really fat . 
i think that a lot of the h e w services , although they 're providing necessary services , have too much fat in them . 
there is just way too much bureaucracy 
and so much of that tax money is going just to keep that bureaucracy running , keep the paper shuffling around instead of real good programs . 
we spend a fortune for things like v a hospitals 
and then you look at how well they 're managed , 
i do n't think we 're getting our money 's worth out of there . 
i think it 's all going into bureaucrats . 
and a lot of it 's feeding that . 
it seems like everything is really screwy right now as far as the government goes and our whole economy in general 
and our taxes just are going to keep rising no matter what happens 
and especially when you 've got the bush administration who has increased government expenditures beyond what any other president since world war two has done 
between him and reagan , 
the great communicator , 
i just read something that , two thirds or three quarters of our national debt was created during the reagan bush era who are supposedly fiscally conservative . 
and then they go and say , i 'm not , 
congress , they 're the fault for it . 
but the other thing is , it 's tricky , though , 
because like in new hampshire , they say let 's cut the military budget . 
then , you lose half your jobs in new hampshire 
grotten connecticut goes , 
so it 's very tricky to balance that stuff off , because then you hurt , 
if people lose their jobs , then they become a load 
and they 're not contributing taxes . 
that 's right . 
so it 's very hard to say this is what we should cut . 
especially cuts in the defense is really a catch twenty-two double whammy , because like you say , if you cut defense that 's great , 
that 's going to lower our national expenditures , 
but then you 're going to have people on welfare 
and they 're not putting taxes in . 
who are n't contributing . 
i 'm glad i 'm not the one who has to come up with these policies . 
but , what 's very funny is in our town meeting they were , 
this guy both for our school district meeting and our town meeting had this proposal which , unfortunately violates new hampshire constitution for our local town to have people line item their taxes . 
they say i want to pay for this and this and this and this and this . 
course , the only problem with that is then nobody . 
that 's right . 
you have any pets ? 
do i have pets ? 
i have a cat 
and i have two dogs . 
two dogs , 
what kind ? 
i have a schnauzer 
and i have a sheltie . 
schnauzers . 
is it a miniature or a standard schnauzer ? 
it 's a miniature . 
. i 'm going into all this because i just got done working at a pet shop . 
the schnauzer i 'm watching for one of the managers where i work 
and he 's been transferred to germany for a while 
and i 'm taking care of his dog 
and i had just got the kitten when he asked me that 
and he says , my dog does n't like cats , 
and i said , we wo n't tell her it 's a cat , because it was a kitten , 
and they just love kittens . 
they just are fascinated . 
so she does n't know that this is a cat yet . 
that 's good . 
and they get along real good . 
i said if tom could see dog lick this kitty , he 'd flip . 
so that was interesting . 
did n't expect that would happen . 
that 's cool , 
that 's nice . 
let 's see , 
what was the other dog you had ? 
it 's a sheltie . 
a sheltie . 
she 's real sweet little dog . 
she 's got a very nice temperament . 
they 're not as aggressive as a schnauzer . 
the schnauzers are a little aggressive . 
they can be nippy . 
shelties are nice . 
everybody seems to be really happy with them . 
they 're good temperament . 
they 're a good temperament 
they put up with a lot . 
i think they have a good head on their shoulders . 
i think they have a higher level of intelligence than other dogs that i have encountered . 
schnauzers , in particular probably . 
but also some poodles 
there are some smart ones out there , 
but there 's also some , not so smart ones . 
it seems the smaller the are , the worse off they are . 
maybe there 's , some credence in that statement . 
they 're bred down so much . 
they are n't the best pets . 
i really do n't know what the best pet is . 
i guess it 's up to the individual and how they relate to their animal . 
some people seem fairly well suited for , miniature poodles and such . 
and bull dogs . 
but i do n't know about these pit bulls that are so vicious . 
pit bull . 
they 're actually very friendly dogs . 
are they really ? 
i do n't think i 've ever seen one . 
they 're really nice . 
i 've dealt with quite a few of them . 
customers that bring them into the shop and ask me they fit collars and stuff on them 
and they are just really nice , really friendly kind of medium intelligence . , 
how did they get their reputation , then ? 
they train them to be that way , then . 
you really ca n't get a pit bull from birth that 's that way . 
it takes a lot of training and a lot of abuse to get a dog to really respond . 
so the poor animal is doing it in self protection . 
they are n't by nature really nasty critters . 
they are very determined critters 
and so once you get them going , it 's not good , to deal with , 
but , i really like them . 
i was impressed by them . 
they 're real sturdy little critters 
and they are n't that big . 
and just really friendly . 
that 's unusual . 
i was overwhelmed . 
i suppose you were surprised . 
right now , 
they picked up a lot of bad press lately . 
they 're banned in some areas i understand . 
but , any pet can be bad if you train it to be that way . 
in my hometown , they just outlawed ferrets because they had one incident of a ferret attacking a child in a house . 
these people had left this infant in the same room with this loose ferret . 
the ferret is used to running the house and was kind of wild 
and they should expect something like that to happen . 
now it 's like ferrets are outlawed in the town . 
did it attack the child , then ? 
it bit him . 
and that was not a good thing , 
but i think it was probably an individual ferret thing , because it was a fairly wild ferret . 
the people that owned him should have been on the lookout for that . 
they really should have expected it . and taken the precautions . 
they did n't . 
it 's too bad it happened , though . 
because then the animal 's in trouble , and not the person . 
go ahead . 
the subject is child care and how to determine child care , 
and that 's an interesting one for me to talk about since i have no children , 
but i did run a child care facility for a while . 
you should have some opinions on that , then . 
i do have some thoughts on that , 
it 's an interesting experience to be a surrogate parent or parent for a lot of people there , 
and it 's also very interesting in terms of how people choose the child care facilities . 
i guess if i were going to choose my first consideration would be safety . 
my second consideration would be health . 
and i guess my third consideration would be warm personal environment . 
in texas , we have to meet certain state standards in order to operate at an institutional level and at a small home level 
so you meet the standards , 
but then after that there 's a lot more . 
i think it 's important as the safety and health and that kind of stuff , is qualification of people who work there , 
absolutely . 
as a matter of fact , i believe that the safety and health issues depend in a very direct way on the people who are working with the children . 
and that was the most difficult thing of all , to find the right people , the qualified people . 
and it 's the most difficult of all for a parent because a person can be very nice and warm and loving , 
and the other thing that 's difficult in a too small setting , like a day care center is to find the right program of enrichment for the child , because you do n't want to just warehouse the child , 
and i did n't want to run an institution where that was the case , where all we were doing were warehousing because the first four , five years or so important 
and you have to have the right kind of enrichment 
and that includes an atmosphere in which the child is safe and he 's watched and his physical needs are cared for , 
but also his developmental needs are cared for , too . 
when a couple has a child , then they both take four or five years off and devote to parenting . 
that would be lovely . 
get rid of all these child care centers , at least for young kids below the age of six . 
and then , of course , to make up for that the parents would have to work in their later years longer , 
in other words , they probably may end up not working at all in the twenties . 
but then they have to work from age thirty or forty to age seventy or eighty or ninety . 
that would be okay . 
that would help on the other end , too , in terms of not warehousing people and letting people be productive for as long as they can be . 
the world is changing from industrial , base to information base 
and so what that means is you do n't have to be physically powerful to work . 
that 's exactly right . 
all you have to do is have a sharp mind , 
and i believe that mental acuity is easy to maintain , if you just simply continue to exercise your mind . 
so i think a person could work into the seventies , eighties , even nineties for that matter , 
what kind of music you into ? 
i have a pretty wide taste in music , ranging from progressive rock to jazz to lot of different forms of music . 
in fact , it 's easier for me to say the types of music that i do n't like are opera and screaming heavy metal . 
the opera it 's right on track . 
i like classical , 
but i ca n't deal with opera at all . 
and heavy metal it 's noisy . 
i 'm into some industrial music that 's , a bit even harder than that . 
it 's got to have a point to it . 
i do n't mind music that 's difficult to listen to , 
but the , basic point of heavy metal which seems to be music to annoy you gets a little annoying . 
what kind of progressive stuff ? 
i 'm thirty , 
so lot of the stuff i was listening to in my teens like the clash and the sex pistols and r e m , that sort of stuff . 
r e m makes me laugh because they 've gone from a college radio progressive group to being ultra mainstream at this point , 
and it 's not really that they 've changed their musical style so much as the stream changed . 
it 's , a lot of people saying that bands in that position sold out . 
i think that 's pretty much bull . 
because r e m really has n't changed . 
it 's interesting . 
they 're producing similar music 
and it 's good music 
but people have picked up on it . 
that 's good . 
i think it is . 
i 'm impressed . 
for a while there , popular music seemed to have , not a lot of point to it . 
michael bolton really got on my nerves because he was making all this money doing mediocre cover tunes . 
and i could go down to a bar that 's about three minutes from my house and hear people doing covers better than him not making nearly as much money . 
but he picked the right songs 
and , that 's about all he had going for him . or still has , for that matter . 
i guess . 
that , and a marvelous hairdo . 
i 'm sure that sold a lot for him . 
that 's all you really need for a lot of pop . 
i 've kind of developed a short hatred for pop . 
it just seems like there 's no real point . 
you hear the same tune over and over again in a thousand guises 
it 's interesting because you were saying that you liked classical music 
and i like a lot of classical music , 
but i also dislike some classical music , 
and what gets me even more is the attitude of people who are really into classical music , and feel that if it 's not seventy five years old , it has n't stood the test of time . 
i can believe that . 
what kind of things do you like in classical ? 
what 's the standard ? 
stuff that i like , 
i like bach . 
i tolerate vivaldi . 
i ca n't , stand debussy . 
i like tchaikovsky . 
he can make a lot of noise when he 's so inclined . 
for instance , frank zappa has done a fair amount of orchestral composition 
and that 's interesting music , 
but it would not get performed by any municipally funded philharmonic just because , number one , it 's frank zappa and he 's weird , number two , is n't he still alive . 
we 're , much better off playing beethoven 's ninth , 
that 's right , 
we 'll do the ninth 
and everyone will know it and hum it 
it 's safe . 
and it just is n't chance taking enough for me . 
we used to , when i was younger 
we 'd go every weekend . 
but we have n't done whole lot of it lately . 
i 'm kind of into it . 
i 'm kind of a sailor . 
i 'm up in minneapolis now , 
but i was in florida , 
so 
i was kind of into it for a while there . 
were you sailboating ? 
for the most part . 
i had a little sail , 
we do n't get to do a whole lot of that up here . 
what part of texas you from ? 
nacogdoches . 
whereabouts is that ? 
that 's between houston and dallas . 
it 's the oldest town in texas . 
is that right ? 
that 's pretty wild . 
we have lake sam rayburn out here and lake nacogdoches , 
so you got some lakes around you can do that on . 
you do skiing and stuff 
little bit . 
just got through snow skiing . 
just came back from denver 
that sounds good . 
the snow up here is really kind of starting to melt now . 
it was heavy when we were there though . 
i did n't see any boats there , though . 
not too many , 
but 
i just got back from a weekend . 
we went and had a , kind of a picnic in the woods type thing . 
it was pretty nice , 
but i had a boat last summer that i took out , a catamaran that i did a lot of sailing on and stuff . 
that 's a lot of fun , 
but my parents are pretty big sailors , too , 
they 're kind of into it . 
all we have up here mostly bass boats . 
i guess fishing 's a pretty big thing , 
lot of fishing going on up here . 
so , where about in texas is that ? 
is that centrally located 
you ever heard of lufkin ? 
what major city is nearby ? 
houston . 
and that 's south or north of there or something ? 
let me see , 
houston 's north . 
dallas is south . 
that sounds pretty good . 
does that stay pretty constant there 
it gets cold at night , and then warm in the afternoons . 
probably seventies , eighties in the afternoon . 
that 's pretty temperate . 
that 's not too bad . 
but 
have you done any other boating then 
i had n't done any lately , 
but that 's all , 
i used to have a friend that his daddy owned a boat shop . 
and when i was in high school , we used to go boating every day just about . 
that 's great . 
and we had a different boat every day . 
that 's fantastic . 
i used to kind of be that way myself when i lived in north western florida in the panhandle , 
i used to sail about every day . 
i 'd go to work , 
i 'd like to do some sailing . 
it 's a lot of fun . 
especially if you get a pretty fast boat 
those catamarans are pretty fast . 
if you get one like that do have somebody teach you that 
actually , i 've known how to sail pretty much my whole life . 
my family 's pretty into it 
and i took sailing lessons when i was about six 
is it pretty easy ? 
it 's kind of a thing where you get the hang of it after a while just kind of get a feel for the wind and how it works and the physics behind it . 
so it 's not too bad , 
it 's pretty easy to get the hang of , i think 
and generally , everybody i 've known has kind of gotten into it , 
but some people are more motorboaters which is fine . 
that 's about all we have . 
lot of people do n't see the excitement in sailing , 
but , then , again , they may never have tried anything like catamaran 
and that 's when you really start getting into speed , 
some catamarans you can actually pull people behind , the skiers , 
they get so fast . 
i did n't know that . 
they get pretty quick , 
that would be something . 
i have n't personally done that , 
i work with a guy right now that races catamarans in the summertime 
and he 's pretty gassed about it . 
what lake do you all use ? 
he 's from detroit 
so he usually goes on one of the great lakes and does his sailing . 
for me , i go back to orlando in about a month , and so , down there , basically just go to the coast . 
we 're about thirty miles from coco beach and the east coast , 
and there 's a lot of places there you can go . 
so that 's a good thing . 
but 
so , what do you do for a job ? 
i build transformers . 
is that for t i 
it 's for cooper industries . 
are they primarily electronic , then ? 
all we do here is make transformers electronics and stuff like that . 
how do you like it down there in texas ? 
it 's real nice . 
been here all my life . 
no doubt . 
i 've never been to texas . 
i 've been to oklahoma , 
oklahoma 's nothing like it . 
that 's good , because i did n't like oklahoma that well . 
or do you think there 's too much crime now ? 
i guess , any crime is too much 
but , it 's out of control . 
out of control , i do n't know . 
i guess it could be worse . 
we 've got quite a bit of crime in our neighborhood . 
i live in the university district in seattle near the university of washington . 
there 's a lot of problems . 
there 's a big rise in homelessness and more street people 
and we get cars on our block regularly gone through , rifled through and stuff . 
i would not have guessed that in seattle . 
you figured it was like omaha ? 
you know . 
it 's not newark , 
it 's got problems . 
i wonder what really is the answer . 
it seems like the prison systems , we ca n't seem to decide whether or not it 's a reform system or penal system . 
i think most people regard it as a warehouse . where you put away the people that are so bad that you do n't want them out in circulation . 
but the problem is that we only have but so much room 
and we try to put aside in the warehouse , 
and all we do is just displace other people which come back into society and commit crimes 
that 's what i hear . 
do n't you feel like most people have given up on the rehabilitation idea ? 
i get the feeling that a lot of people have . 
i 'm not convinced that i have . 
my mom taught english as a second language 
and she was dealing mostly with people that were in on drug crimes 
you mean she taught in a prison ? 
in a maximum security prison down in central virginia . 
i see . 
and , the problem she had was not with the inmates at all . 
the people that she had the most problems with were the people that ran the prison . 
the bureaucracy . 
obviously i did n't see the classroom and , hopefully never will , 
but , they put her at the end of a hallway , 
there were no other classes going on at the time 
i do n't know exactly what that is , 
but i just assume it was something that she could hit immediately and really annoy a lot of people . 
so she did n't feel safe . 
she did n't . 
she did n't , 
she felt fine for the first year when she had her first set of inmates , 
and then later on the administration kept getting worse , 
and she got a couple of inmates that she did n't feel quite as comfortable around . 
she did n't feel that public schools were safe , 
so next thing you know she 's teaching in a maximum security prison . 
at least it 's maximum security . 
you said that perhaps people have given up the thought that rehabilitation 's possible 
and i 'm thinking that it 's even to the point that the people that run the system have given up on it . 
i think the people that run the system are the most hardened and probably the most cynical . 
i talked to a few people who worked in prisons and stuff 
you can get pretty hardened , i 'm sure . 
i always have problems because i can never decide whether or not i 'm supposed to be a conservative or a liberal 
but i keep thinking that there 's got to be some way , that a lot of this is circumstances . 
those are funny labels . 
i ca n't help but wonder if i grew up without a father , on the streets , and with little or no money , would n't i be in prison at this point ? 
i think you can blame it on social problems . 
i do n't know . 
as poverty has gotten worse , as education has gotten worse , as there 's been more single parent families , as there 's been more homelessness , there 's been more crime . 
we 've got methadone programs where people who desperately want to get off drugs ca n't get onto the program . 
there 's not enough beds and treatment programs , rising drug abuse , 
and 
it 's a mess . 
i do n't remember the gentleman 's name , 
but the mayor of baltimore is a rhodes scholar 
is he the guy wants to deregulate heroin , or something ? 
what he wants to do is take all the money that he gets for drug enforcement and use it for drug education . 
and basically , just attack the problem at the demand side . 
stop trying to attack supply which to some extent makes sense and to some extent does n't . 
switzerland tried the grand experiment 
and they had this park where they were letting anybody use drugs as long as they stayed in the park 
let 's see , 
i guess i can start . 
we 're actually trying to find one now because our family 's growing . 
are you really ? 
so i 'm looking at something larger than what we have . 
we 've got an eighty-four charger that 's about gone and an eighty-nine horizon . 
so , i 'm looking for something bigger , 
which are both kind of small . 
we were thinking mini van for a while 
and we 're looking at some just four door , five passenger sedans as well . 
are you looking for an american car 
or , you open to buying foreign cars ? 
i do n't really have a preference either way , 
i guess the american cars had a bad reputation 
but i have n't had any real substantial problems with the ones i 've had . 
personally , i have a japanese car right now , 
and i really like it a lot . 
i think the japanese really build good cars 
but i feel that the japanese have really produced a much higher quality product than our car manufacturers have for a while . 
if i were to buy another car i would be partial to buying another japanese car , 
but i would also look at american cars , 
but when i bought the car that i bought now , i did that also 
and i just felt that the japanese car was a much better product . 
there 's a door seal that does n't quite seal 
and you have to take it back every once in a while . 
it 's clearly just a design problem there . 
it is . 
right now , 
the next car i buy is going to be sort of a sports car . 
i would really like to have a sports car . 
i do n't have a family , 
so i do n't need a mini van or such to haul people around in . 
like a miata or something like that ? 
i like the miata , 
but i do n't like it enough to buy it . 
actually the car that i really like right now is an eagle talon , which is an american car . 
but something along that lines . 
interesting . 
because i have an economy car right now , which is okay , 
but i think i 'd like to move on to something a little better . 
that 's interesting . 
i guess probably the factors we 'd use to compare are a little different because i look for size and safety , and then mileage . 
probably , 
when i bought the car that i bought , i was looking for mileage , 
and i was looking for dependability and something that was going to last a long time . for the money that i was going to spend , that i would get a return that was worth that money . 
i think in terms of computer terminology , i look at price performance and things like that . and then a little bit at life expectancy , 
but it depends on what you pay initially . 
but i 've got a hundred and twenty-five thousand miles on the charger . 
that 's right . 
actually it was my wife 's car that she brought into the marriage 
and she got just a commute between cincinnati and dayton . 
we had to replace the friction plate and the transmission at thirty thousand miles , 
but the other ninety four thousand have been just fine , with it , 
i 've had one or two american cars i think , 
and they were okay . 
i had a pontiac once 
and i never had a problem with it , 
but my mother had a dodge at one point 
and i had driven it a few times 
actually , i had a dodge omni at one point 
and that was what really prejudiced me against american cars was because i did not feel that it was a very quality car . 
i guess you 'd have to say , if i was looking , i would definitely be looking for a foreign car . 
that 's interesting . 
i guess , in particular , we 're looking at a ninety-one corsica buy back at a g m sponsored auction , 
but i think they 're obliged to have these things because hertz and avis and those folks have it in their contract that they can sell it back to g m after they 've used it for six months and put twelve or fifteen thousand miles , on it 
which is a good deal . 
ninety-twos , granted , 
fourteen to sixteen is what they go for on the lot , 
so all the depreciation has been taken off 
and , the dealer comes out okay , 
i do n't know what kind of hit they take on it , 
but sounds like everybody 's had their chance to make their money off it 
but , i do n't know , 
i 'm sure they did . 
we keep looking at that mini van . 
we can get a caravan at twelve , five 
but that 's a little bit more than we want to spend right now . 
but it 's interesting , 
but i do n't know , 
what are your benefits like at your job , 
and how do you feel about them ? 
pretty good , actually . 
i work for hewlett packard 
and they have a pretty good benefits package . 
in fact , they 're kind of known for having good benefits . 
the pay is n't fabulous , 
although i saw a survey recently 
and i 'm making actually over the average for my career , my experience and all that stuff which kind of surprised me . 
that 's good . 
what kind of a degree have you got ? 
i 've got a bachelor 's in electrical engineering 
and i 'm not a hugely advanced degree or any of that stuff . 
anyway , our benefits are pretty good . 
that 's pretty generous , although you have to hold the stock for two years before you get the company contribution which is , kind of a pain , 
but there 's a four o one k plan for sheltering some taxable income . 
how long have you been with them ? 
i 've been with them for seven years . 
that 's good . 
and , the best thing is four years or five years you 're completely vested in the retirement plan and everything , 
but there 's several medical plans to choose from that cover pretty much everything . 
i do n't get sick that often , 
so i do n't pay much of it , 
and i pay five dollars every time i visit the hospital . 
they do n't cover eyes though , 
and i have contact lenses , 
so that 's kind of a pain . 
but i can live , 
but , for all practical purpose , you are almost a hundred percent covered . 
so that you 've got small things to gripe about . 
that sounds like you must feel really good about it . 
and the dental plan is fabulous . 
i guess they would charge a little bit if there was some orthodontia or something for one of my dependents or something like that 
but that 's not the case , 
so , i guess nothing . 
it 's fabulous . 
what about you ? 
i work in washington at the naval research laboratory . 
i also have a part time job at a law firm 
and i get no benefits from them , at the part time work although , they pay better per hour than my sort of , quote , real job does . 
they 're not the greatest . 
i 'm a computer scientist 
and before i got my degree , i had done paralegal work for law firms here in washington 
and at that time , i was in gravy city . 
the law firms in this town for a long time were just rolling in the dough in the early eighties 
and benefits were just amazing 
and we had everything paid for , 
and with the government , it 's not quite that nice a deal . 
but it 's okay . 
what we have to do is , we have to pay about twenty percent of our costs 
and it 's deducted from our check each month and that sort of thing , 
and the plans that are available to us range from kind of mediocre to really sweet 
so i think i 'm actually involved in a relatively good plan at this point . 
but it could be better , 
that 's for sure , 
but , there are other things that you get when you work for the government in terms of more relaxed atmosphere . 
it 's really nice for me , anyway , to be able to work in a research atmosphere where i do n't have to worry about academics or anything like that , 
and , so i 'm really kind of happy about that end of things . 
one of the things with my company is that they 've got a reputation for a lot of job security 
and there 's a lot of different things that they do , lot of different divisions in the san francisco bay area that they do , 
i , myself have moved around quite a bit within the company 
and i have n't had to move my residence to do that . 
i still live in san jose 
that 's fabulous . 
that 's interesting , 
because i have a cousin whose husband works for hewlett packard up in the massachusetts area . 
he lives in andover 
he 's specifically an engineer and does work with the hewlett packard machines that do sonographic imagining 
and i 've been over to see his complex over there 
and it 's amazing . 
it 's all ecologically designed 
and , he seems really , really happy with the set up . 
in fact , i know a guy who works at andover who i used to work with out here 
and he moved his family back east a few years ago to take that position . 
kind of interesting . 
how serious is the , subject of crime in your area ? 
needless to say , here in washington , d c this is the war zone . 
d c around here stands for drug capital or death capital . 
it 's really bad here . 
for example , the local high school they 've already found two students with sawed off shotguns 
and they 're starting to get these hand held metal detectors so they can inspect the kids every morning when they come to school , of all things . 
luckily , it has n't gotten that bad here . 
san jose actually has a pretty good record in terms of being relatively low on violent crime . 
but it 's on the uprise , especially in a lot of the outlying agricultural towns . because you end up having a lot of gangs forming largely around the hispanic core . 
it seems to be that gang warfare follows very rapidly on the heels of poverty conditions . 
that 's how they bind themselves together in groups , i guess 
interestingly enough , i do n't think we have here , a lot of gangs , not a whole large group of them , but just a few . most of them centered around drug territory . 
and so they 're protecting their economic interests , i guess . 
and nowadays the latest thing i 've read about in the paper here that they 're doing as far as crimes involving stealing cars is that , instead of stealing cars at night , breaking into them or whatever , they will pick out a car that they want and wait until you show up , and then as you get out of the car , they just step up and take the keys off of you and drive the car away and leave you standing in front of your house . 
that 's efficient . 
that 's the latest thing . 
that way there 's no damage to the car or anything . 
they just wait for you to show up after they 've picked out which one they want . 
they 're decided they 're completely unworried about being identified or anything of that sort . 
just wait for you to drive to your house , 
you get out 
and they get in , 
off they go with your car . 
i think they call it car jacking around here . 
i 'd heard that phrase . 
that 's kind of the latest thing , 
but , every year in the d c area it gets progressively worse as far as the number of homicides , 
so it 's unfortunate that we feel sometimes even that we have to bring our kids up in this area because we 're not from around here , 
i 'm from ohio 
and my wife 's from florida 
and we 've just come from twenty years in the military which is an entirely different environment , 
so this is a whole new thing , for us to have to put up with 
and it 's really scary sometimes . 
there are n't that many , places that are safe from that sort of thing nowadays . 
and it 's pretty bad when they 're using metal detectors in school 
what do you do to reduce crime in a major city like d c where it 's a way of life for everybody . 
i would hate to have to wrestle with that problem . 
i do n't know what the solution is . 
there 's no way they can stop the drugs , 
and that 's what 's causing all the killing . 
there 's a couple of things that i 've heard , 
most of them are fairly radical in terms of what you 'd have to do . 
course the reason that these kids tend to turn toward the drugs and everything else seems to be just the end results of poverty and parents that are n't doing any parenting and everything else 
because the parents are n't making a living at anything . 
and they 're accidental parents half the time anyway . 
and their friends are driving mercedes 
they grow up with that as their way of life 
and i think to a large extent , they do n't understand the concept that what they 're doing is actually illegal because this is the way they were raised . 
it 's illegal , 
but it 's not wrong because all their friends do it . 
so maybe it 's the law that in their eyes 
and they say , it 's the law that 's got to be changed instead of their way of life , 
so , i do n't know , 
i 'm glad it 's not the kind of problem i have to come up with an answer to because it 's not easy . 
i think that the drug thing would actually be relatively easy to solve in terms of an actual solution to the problem . 
the other social problems would n't go away . 
they 've always been with us . 
and i used to think that this whole argument was completely bogus , 
but then , the more i thought about it , the more sense it made . 
have you ever served on a jury ? 
i 've not . 
i 've been called , 
but i had to beg off from the duty . 
and you ? 
i was called 
and then i was not chosen . 
i was , originally chosen primarily because i was a young fellow 
and they tend to view the younger fellows as more likely to hand down a guilty verdict . 
i do n't know why . 
something i picked up in a psychology class some time ago . 
it 's that the younger they are , they tend to be more conservative for some statistical oddball reason , 
and they kind of liked me . 
i do n't know what they saw in me , 
but they saw it . 
but back to the issue , 
i do n't know , 
at times i feel that a unanimous decision is warranted , especially in cases in which there 's no smoking gun . 
but , there , too , there are also cases in which i feel a majority rule might be acceptable , particularly in civil cases . 
in criminal cases , i 'd like to see the unanimity remain , 
but in civil cases , i think a majority rule by jury would be sufficient . 
could you give me an example of a case where you think that ? 
in a criminal case one in which there is assault or some such . i think there ought to be a unanimous vote because by law and by constitution there must be proven beyond a shadow of a reasonable doubt that the person in question did this . 
and in civil law there is such a thing as misappropriations or misuse of financial instruments or something like that . 
a majority rule would be more in line as there is no real smoking gun in the civil cases . 
i do n't know if i 'm making any sense or not . 
are you just trying to say that criminal cases are more tangible 
often there 's more incriminating evidence . 
and also , too , i think i 'm tempering this and the fact that the consequences are much more serious in a criminal case . 
do you think that in a civil case , if there was majority rule , that it would be easy for someone to be set up ? 
i really ca n't say for certain , truth be known . 
as it stands , there 's many ways and means by which a person can be set up , both in a civil and criminal case . 
the documentary , the thin blue line pretty much demonstrated that . 
i do n't know if you 're familiar with that or not . 
i 'm not . 
a fellow when he was much younger was tried and convicted and sentenced to death . 
fortunately , in his case , the death penalty was revoked 
so he served out his sentence until it was discovered by a fellow who was making a documentary called the thin blue line that this guy had basically gotten railroaded through the judicial system . 
the case was reopened 
and he was exonerated . 
i think that there are many cases in our judicial system where justice is not served . 
many laws , but little justice . 
and i also think , just like you were talking about before , why you were chosen to be on a jury that just , the process of picking jurors is not always objective . 
certainly not , 
certainly not . 
and they like to think that they 're getting someone who 's objective in all this , 
but they 're really looking for someone who will pretty much fulfill the lawyers ' desires . 
because you get up 
and they ask you a few questions , 
both sides do , 
each attorney can use that as much as they like 
or , i think it 's a limit now , 
they probably have a limit now , 
but , they pretty much go through that , 
and then you have to give a reason to the court why you ca n't serve . 
for me , it was financial hardship , 
but , onto the thing 
i was never aware that juries had any say on recommending sentencing . 
it was always my impression that the justice himself , or herself , had the final say . 
what kind of experience do you have , then with child care ? 
i wonder if that worked . 
does it say something ? 
i think it usually does . 
i do n't know , 
hold it down a little longer , 
i do n't remember . 
it seemed like it did , 
but it might not . 
i guess we can start . 
i do n't have any kids . 
she just had a baby , 
he 's about five months old 
do you have kids ? 
i have three . 
i do . 
i do n't work , though , 
but i used to work when i had two children . 
i work off and on just temporarily and usually find friends to babysit , 
but i do n't envy anybody who 's in that situation to find day care . 
but , does your sister live in a big community ? 
it 's a fairly large community . 
she got real lucky , though . 
he had a boss who moved into a larger office 
and she 's able to take her baby to work with her . 
and it 's a small office that she works in 
and it 's a legal office , 
and it 's just one lawyer 
and so she 's the only one really that takes care of the office . 
there 's no one else that works there . 
and so they have an extra room and everything for the baby , 
so it works out pretty good for her . 
how lucky . 
i know a lot of people around here sometimes have mothers or grandmothers that take care of their kids 
but , the community i 'm in is not a real large one , 
so it 's fairly safe . 
to get references and that , 
worried that they 're not going to get enough attention ? 
and colds and things like that get spread real easy and things , 
and they 're expensive 
and , course , there 's a lot of different types of day care available , too where they teach them academic things . 
or they just watch them and let them play and things like that , 
take a long time to find the right place 
and you do n't always even know if it 's going to be the right place or not . 
anything could happen . 
i guess after he gets to a certain age she 's going to have to take him to a day care . 
when he starts toddling around and stuff . 
when she ca n't keep control of him 
and he starts crawling 
it would be hard , 
i think it would be kind of stressful . 
it would be nice to have him around 
what if he cried at the wrong time 
or the phone rang at the wrong time . 
i think she has problems with that , too . 
when you have kids , will you work ? 
do you work now ? 
i do n't know 
that 's something i 've considered . 
i always kind of think it would be neat to be able to watch them and be there for them all the time . 
is that what you do ? 
i teach my kids at home , 
so i 'm here all the time . 
so they do n't go to school . 
what 's that called , 
it 's correspondence school , 
they do it at home . 
that 's interesting . 
do you have to have any special training ? 
it depends on the state you live actually . 
some laws absolutely prohibit it . 
some states say that you have to be a certified teacher in order to do that . 
our state does n't yet , say that 
and i 'm not a certified teacher . 
i went to college , 
but my kids are only elementary levels right now 
so they have n't been to public schools at all . 
one of them was for a couple of years 
and so my oldest , he was , 
and then my youngest two have never been . 
i lived over in europe for a couple of years , 
i lived in germany 
and in germany they do n't have the jury system . 
what they do is they have three judges , basically . 
and you get up there 
and the prosecuting attorney presents his evidence 
and your defense attorney presents their evidence 
and those three guys take the evidence , go off , figure it out and then come back and say whether you 're guilty or not . 
our judicial system is in such total chaos . 
i think what they need to do is , they need to somehow take the money out of it . 
we have a family called all day family . 
they were all murdered . 
all the people signed confessions , 
they went to a trial by jury . 
they been trying these people now for twenty-two years , ever since i was a child . 
and what they 've done is they 've bought mercedes after mercedes after mercedes is what they 've done , 
has nothing to do with justice whatsoever . 
it 's one of those things , 
i would have to look at it . 
if they did it with just the judges , the police have to do a lot better job of making sure that their evidence is airtight 
because the judges sitting in that kind of stuff day after day , they know all the procedures , 
they know what 's good and what is n't , 
they 'd be able to say , i 'm sorry , 
you ca n't use this as evidence because it was either illegally obtained or whatever 
and you would n't have this theatrics where the lawyer jumps up and presents it to the jury 
and then the judge says , , 
disregard that . 
come on , 
any jury 's not going to disregard the evidence . 
that 's true . 
i think our judicial system is attorney welfare myself . 
that may very well be . 
i hold it in the utmost contempt . 
my favorite is the police department , 
they 're not aimed at the criminal . 
the judicial system is aimed at the citizens 
because you and i , we have work schedules , 
we can be called at work , 
we have social security numbers , 
they can trace us down , 
we have telephones , 
then we have checkbooks . 
criminals have none of these things . 
they 're real difficult to catch , 
and if they do catch them , they do n't get any monetary gain out of it , whereas we write a check . 
so where do you think they target their efforts ? 
that 's true . 
they target their efforts toward the citizens not the criminals . 
how would you go about changing it ? 
i 've nailed the problem down 
leave the details up to somebody else . 
here in atlanta area , our crime rate is just astronomical , 
yet , you go out on the streets 
and they 're giving speeding tickets . 
talking about the lawyers what might very well cause a drop in the number of lawyers and things like that , is to set the fees for cases . 
it 's kind of do it in the similar vein like , v c r or television repair . 
if you take your t v in , a lot of these t v repair places will say , i 'll repair your t v for a hundred dollars , 
and if he gets in there and starts rooting around and finds something in there that 's really tremendously wrong with it , then he eats it . 
he repairs it , gives it back to you , and takes your hundred dollars . 
if he comes in and says i 'll repair your v c r , or somebody else 's v c r , for a hundred dollars , gets in there , maybe it 's a blown fuse , 
takes him two minutes , 
he fixes it , 
he still charges you that hundred dollars . 
so , maybe if we did that with the lawyers , so that whether it 's a murder case or somebody suing somebody else , you get x dollars for that case 
and that 's it . 
i firmly believe in that 
none of this , 
because when you get the most heinous of crimes , have you ever noticed you always get the most renowned defense attorney ? 
and here 's this bum that did n't have a job 
and he 's got a attorney that you and i could never afford . 
that 's true . 
who 's paying for that ? 
you 're talking to part of them that 's paying for that . 
and you 're talking to the other half that 's paying for it 
that 's right . 
it 's amazing 
and when you stop and look at it the judges , they 're all former lawyers . 
that 's another problem . 
i think to really correct the judicial system , you have to get the lawyers out of it . 
they 're totally and morally bankrupt without any ethics whatsoever , 
i guess it starts recording now . 
i do n't really know that much about the recycling in this area that we 're in . 
we live in the saginaw area . 
saginaw ? 
fact as far as i know , the school does n't have any kind of programs or anything out here . or the grocery store or anything in this area , 
we live in plano 
i guess the city has bought the big green trash cans 
and they have a recycling truck that comes around now 
and you separate your glass and paper and aluminum 
and you set it out 
and they pick it up 
and it works real neat . 
they seem to be having a real good response . 
that is pretty good . 
we 're originally from another state 
and i know in the state we were from that they did that similar type thing . 
the city set separate trash cans 
and you separated your stuff 
and you put it in there 
and they took it . 
on bottles , did they give you so many cents back for cans 
i do n't really know . 
i do n't really know , 
they started after we moved down here 
and so i 'm not really familiar . 
i just know that my in-laws up in oklahoma , that 's how they pick it up , 
but i do n't know if they get anything back on it 
or , do you get money for it ? 
i noticed it 
iowa and other cities like that , it 's a nickel per aluminum can . 
so you do n't see too many thrown out around the streets . or even bottles . 
all kinds of bottles they really charge people when you purchase them and then when you turn them back in . 
i remember the old days as a kid where bottle was a nickel . 
and now most of them are throwaway . 
so , maybe that 's one thing they can do . 
i think now they 're a lot more expensive than that . 
i bought some cokes the other day in the little bottles , 
and i know they were at least ten cents apiece . 
i was how much were those bottles ? 
and , they come in eight and ten packs instead of six packs 
and it was two dollars and something for the bottles . 
i was god almighty , 
it costs more for the bottles than it did for the cokes . 
that was my brother 's first job in a grocery store . 
he was in the bottle area . 
it 's pretty dangerous out there when they fall over , 
they say that there 's a big glut of the green glass , 
of green glass . 
it 's amazing . 
out in this area , they really do n't have anything . 
i know that minyard 's and places like that around arlington and fort worth and a lot of those grocery stores , they have four different bins out front . different colors for different things and things like that , 
but i do know some of these places were doing that 
and they discontinued them because people were coming and dumping their trash in them . 
i notice the plastic have sort of faded away , the milk jugs . 
there 's too much labor involved to separate the stuff . 
more than it 's worth . 
i do n't know , 
it 's not as easy , selecting clean junk as they say . 
who wants to clean their junk before they throw it away . 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
it 's like washing the dishes before you put them in the dishwasher . 
we all do it . 
it was nice talking to you . 
it was nice talking to you . 
i have no idea how long this is supposed to last or anything . 
i think two or three minutes is fine . 
is that it ? 
it was nice talking to you 
and i guess actually , i was going to do it for my son so that he could make some money . 
but then it has my name on it , 
so i 'm okay , 
i 'll sit down here and call it . 
we 're doing it for a church choir 
are you ? 
that 's interesting . 
that 's nice . 
thank you . 
thank you . 
does the company you work for test for drugs ? 
they just recently started a policy of testing drugs , which was kind of interesting , 
because when i went to work for them they did n't do that , 
but since then they 've started a drug testing policy , not because of their own convictions , but because the clients of our company requests that we do that . 
how about you ? 
we 're not being tested for drugs at all , 
our policies and procedures manual the furthest it goes about drugs is in kind of the miscellaneous section , or its reasons for immediate dismissal , 
it says , use of narcotics on company premises . 
so that 's pretty general , 
but i work for an environmental management firm 
and i 'm an engineer there , 
but i do go on a lot of hazardous waste sites , 
but i do n't operate any machinery . 
now , people for our company that do operate machinery like drill rigs and things like that are under a medical monitoring program , 
because they 're at a higher risk of exposure 
and blood screening is part of that 
they do test for drugs in that capacity , 
it 's just something that turns up in the other parameters that they test for . 
but i think it 's got a little more relevance since they are around dangerous equipment and things like that and do have to exercise some quick judgment in the field . 
what is the nature of your company 's business ? 
we do oil well services . 
so , a lot of our clients are oil companies , big oil companies , 
we have engineers who go out to the client 's oil well , and work with a lot of heavy equipment and put tools down the oil well and stuff , 
so the clients are very concerned that the engineers who go out there are adhering to their drug policy , because they 're on their territory and everything , 
but the thing that 's interesting is that i 'm an engineer a software engineer 
and i work in the software house , 
and everybody there are all software engineers . 
they never go out to the oil rigs or anything , 
a little different , actually , 
but we have to go through the same thing , 
it 's a little different , than a lot of drug policies . 
in our case , it 's like , when you hire on , they 'll test you , 
and then if you get injured on the job , if you trip and fall or something they give you a drug test right away . 
other than that they do n't have random testing or anything like that , 
but , a lot of people were really upset with the policy at first . 
particularly we have a lot of parties and stuff where they serve alcohol , 
and they did n't find any problem with that , 
that 's been an issue in our company even though we do n't have the random or even regular drug screening . 
in fact , they 'll have these little parties , 
my brother lives where i work , 
and i have many a time called him to come get me . 
but they do n't think twice about serving beer by the keg , 
and i do n't know , 
i think it 's got some relevance , 
but i think its relevance is pretty limited . 
in your case , i do n't think that you should necessarily be subjected to drug testing . 
i think that 's an interesting policy your company has about testing immediately after an on the job accident . 
it 's really bizarre . 
particularly where we are . 
there was a story of a woman last year who actually did slip on the ice and sprained her ankle 
and she was a personnel secretary 
and she had to get tested 
and , i do n't know 
i 'm ambivalent about the whole thing . 
they should be able to make it as a continue of employment in some sense 
and it 's like employments are contractual by nature anyway 
but i had an experience when i was interviewing for a job where i had to do a drug test 
and it was kind of a long story , 
but it was just an incredibly humiliating experience what i went through , 
and it amounted to going in before any of these interviews , 
i 'm not even working for this company , 
i 'm going in for interviews 
and they flew me out to chicago 
and , before i went into any of the interviews they took me to the doctor to give me a physical . 
they said it was going to be a physical , 
and actually beforehand they told me they were going to do drug screening , 
but i had forgotten about that , 
and so , basically , i 'd already peed off in that morning 
and when i got in there , i was n't , able to give a full sample , 
and so they made me sit and wait for forty-five minutes , drink a whole ton of water before i went to any of the interviews and go in there again , 
and the procedure is utterly humiliating . 
you go in there with the doctor , 
he makes you take off all your clothes 
and then he examines you . 
steve with the election year and whatnot coming up , do you think we ought to cut taxes , raise them , 
or what do you think ? 
that 's a really hard question . 
i do know that politicians always talking out of both sides of their mouths . 
our friend , the president , right now , says no new taxes , 
we should be cutting taxes now because of the recession 
and at the same time , the budget he sent to congress has tax and fee increases , 
so i know the politicians are n't straightforward . 
it 's hard to call . 
it really is . 
i never really thought that the question really had to do . 
i always . 
that 's tax 
we 're paying money 
and supposedly this money is going into some kind of fund so that when it comes our turn to retire , the money will be there for us . 
, 
when i see that money taken out of my paycheck or every other week , i really think that money 's history 
and as far as return investment , that 's nothing 
and we 're not even going to get the exact same number of dollars back . 
i may be wrong , 
but i believe that the cure for polio is already founded , 
but supposedly once you have an office in d c , and staff it with people , it 's really tough to close it down 
and they just have n't yet . 
i 'm not exactly sure about polio in particular . 
i know we have a polio vaccine will prevent somebody from getting polio 
i 'm not sure if we know what to do in terms of curing some who has already gotten polio . 
that might be the difference . 
i do n't know . 
it 's like seventy-five percent of the historical sites in america are in the home districts of very powerful people politically 
for some reason , historical sites with the full federal money and everything seem to appear almost as political favors to very strong politicians . 
it 's funny because it was one of the things that bush is trying really hard to get ahold of is the line item veto where congress is able to attach all kinds of funny amendments for individual congressional districts to the main budget proposals 
and the poor president has to either accept or reject the whole thing . 
it sounds like you think that we 'd be able to save some money by passing the line item veto . 
i think the line item veto is not necessarily a bad thing , assuming that the president uses it to get rid of this kind of waste . 
on the other hand it assumes that you have lots of confidence in your president not to veto important things . and just to get rid of the unimportant things . 
and whenever there 's that kind of subjective judgment , there 's always going to be a dispute as to where the boundary between waste and necessity is . 
so i 'm not sure that that will help solve our problems , 
i forgot , 
there 's a political term for this stuff , pork barrel or something . 
pork barrel politics . 
pork barrel politics . 
there has to be some way to do it . 
i know state governors usually have line item vetos 
and i lived in massachusetts for a while 
and when dukakis vetoed certain things , there was a big uproar and was n't necessarily so popular . 
but massachusetts when dukakis was there , anyway , was n't in that great shape financially . 
at least at the end . 
i do n't know , 
they were very good at first , 
they were in very good financials at first 
and that 's part of the reason he became a nominee is because things went so well . 
and then , of course , the bottom fell out . 
it 's tough . 
there 's two ways you can kind of go to get out of tough financial situations . 
i guess you can raise taxes and then create job programs and whatnot 
or you can hope that if people keep their money that they 'll spend more and create jobs and whatnot . 
and spare the economy . 
it 's a hard balance . 
it definitely is . 
even not for government , 
even just for a small business . 
type of music is hot down in texas ? 
i do n't know exactly what 's hot down in texas . 
i know what 's hot down here with me , 
i do n't ever listen to the radio 
and that 's usually what 's hot around here 
what kind of music do you like ? 
mostly folk music . 
folk music . 
i find myself listening to a lot of either old timer or new england dance bands as well as just more popular folk music and new artists coming up . 
we 're on totally different wavelengths . 
i 'm more old rock and roll some newer , heavy metal rock and roll type van halen , that kind of thing . 
what about classic rock type stations . 
i do n't listen to the radio at all . 
we live in a fairly small town , 
so classic rock for me is what i have , which is doors , eagles , jimmy hendrix . 
some of the older eagles stuff was good . 
the type of music , at least to me , only sounds good at a high volumes 
and i do n't like listening at high volumes . 
but some of their older stuff was quite enjoyable to me . 
hotel california and that era . 
that 's something does n't even sound good loud really . 
definitely . 
anything new you like coming out now , other than folk music , some i might know of . 
i do n't know any folk music at all . 
down in texas listen to a little country every now and then . 
i 'm sure there 's a lot of that down there . 
plenty . 
way more than i can stand down here . 
i do n't care for it at all , that texas twang or whatever you want to call it . 
there 's a conway twitty twang , 
then there 's the dolly parton hollywood sound . 
that 's even more commercialized country music . 
but it 's getting pretty big everywhere , as i see it . 
garth brooks is outselling guns and roses 
i think some of them , the artists are even hitting the pop charts . 
it 's kind of strange that it 's getting as big as it is . 
concert tours for country and western sings it 's quite odd , 
but i do n't know , 
music is kind of going an odd direction nowadays , i think . 
it 's becoming not necessarily good music , just popular music . 
i think most artists are in to make a few bucks . 
late sixties , early seventies , they were definitely pushing a message . 
that 's what you say , 
and then music is wrapped around now . 
now , it 's the other way around . 
at least to my mind , guns and roses does n't have too much to say . 
they do n't have anything really important you want to hear . 
but it 's kind of odd , 
it 's like , it does n't have to be good , 
it 's just who does it . 
you hear a paula abdul song 
and i think , if somebody else were to play that everybody would think , that 's lousy , 
but because she did it , it 's supposed to be good , 
it comes to the point where it 's your name , not what you do more than anything . 
madonna can do anything 
and it would be considered good because it 's madonna . 
madonna could start playing folk music 
and folk music would be huge just because madonna does it , 
so it 's really backwards how things are working now 
it 's the artist , not the merit . 
i do n't think that 's a good thing at all , 
but , that 's the , point we 've reached , 
so i do n't know how much farther we can digress before we have to turn it around and go the other way , at least . 
i do n't know , 
i know for myself that for the most part , i do n't know which artist is which , 
so i listen to a song , 
i either like the song 
or i do n't like it 
and then if i really like the song , eventually i 'll figure out who it was . 
that 's about how i am on popular music . 
everything i listen to is what i buy , not whatever they play on the radio 
you have to figure out what to buy , 
or do you just buy along the same artist ? 
i just mostly buy along the same lines all the time . 
i do n't really switch around to new things very often . 
it 's way to hectic and too confusing . 
so you keep buying the same artists until you do n't like an album , 
then you stop ? 
generally , 
or , about the only new music i hear is somebody else that i know will buy something new that i have n't heard 
and i listen to it that way , 
i do n't go out on a limb and buy something new very often unless i 've heard it . 
that 's one thing i like about some of the folk music scenes , 
there 's a couple of nice small coffee houses up in new jersey . 
and , it 's very nice , 
you go into the coffee house 
and an artist is there 
and very often the artist will have an album 
and , so if you like the artist , you buy the album . 
so you definitely get to try before you buy . 
you do n't always quite get it right , 
i 'm not sure how it is in georgia , 
but in pittsburgh the crime rate really is not very high at the moment . 
is that true for atlanta ? 
atlanta is kind of high . 
it 's lower than it has been in the past . 
i guess nineteen ninety is when it start to drop off , 
and usually around the christmas season is usually when the crime rate is a little bit higher . 
that 's probably not true only for atlanta , but for just about anywhere . 
what kind of crime problem do you usually run into ? 
any specifics ? 
, from what 's on the news there are very few actual robberies reported of residences . 
what 's more likely to occur is knocking over a small store or a car theft things of that nature . 
very few assaults , 
although on the college campuses there are cases of people getting from an automated teller and somebody trying to device a scam for , getting the money for them that actually preys mostly on foreigners . 
but mostly petty things and , nothing really too big . 
i guess here we run into that sometime , 
but i guess a lot of crimes are done with apartment type break ins that type , not much home break ins . 
there are some , but not very high . 
as far as tellers and things like that , it 's not extremely high either . 
there were one case where this one guy was taking women from the teller and , making them give him money and stuff and then at the same time , raping them all , 
so that 's kind of like a double assault there . 
a strange case that happened about a year ago was someone actually stole a complete automated teller machine . 
it was a free standing machine 
and they backed up into it with a truck and put it on the back and drove away with it . 
there 's a crime for you . 
there 's a crime . 
but i guess most of the things that happen around here are pretty innocuous . 
and i saw an episode of the t v show , cops one time that was in pittsburgh , 
and it did surprise me , because they were doing drug arrests and things like that , 
but i do n't really think those things happen too often because , like i said , from what 's reported in the news , at least , it 's not all that common . 
i do n't know , 
like i say , lot of cases is usually just apartments and break ins and things like that 
and a lot of it is due to drugs . drug related in most cases , 
it 's not like it 's 
it is for drugs because you really ca n't on the street make any money off of it per se , 
you going to get ten or fifteen bucks for it 
so you really not making a sizeable profit . 
so it 's not really lucrative to take chances like that even though it does exist . 
i live in an apartment . 
right now i 'm finishing out my last semester at the university of pittsburgh 
and the apartment would be very easy for just about anyone to break in . 
but , even so , it 's still difficult for me to convince my apartment mates to lock the doors when they go out and things like that . 
it would be so easy for someone who is motivated to do so to just sit out back , take a look at when people are here and when they 're not just come in , 
there 's a t v and a v c r 
and they could get in pretty easy and especially since there are bedrooms upstairs and people leave the door open while they 're upstairs playing music , 
it could still happen then . 
that 's true , 
but you 'd be surprised also how , much people watch you that . 
i guess there was one case , 
i was surprised , 
so happened this person worked at the same place , 
i work for georgia tech 
and they work at the same place i did , 
but i did n't know that they had been watching me 
because i was getting ready to go in my car one morning 
and the first thing they said is you do n't have to be to work at eight , 
shock , 
jonathan you say it 's near and dear to your heart . 
buying a car is something you 're contemplating , i take it . 
ca n't do it right now . 
our situation is that we 're a two car family 
and i have a mini van we bought a few years ago . 
it 's got a five year loan , 
so that 's still got a couple years to run 
and the car i get to drive is a nissan sentra that 's going to be ten years old next month 
so , i think about sprucing that up in a couple years if i can . 
what kind of a car do you think you 'll buy next ? 
since i just turned forty , i 'm thinking about a forty year old man 's car something real sporty 
but realistically with the need to take the kids to school , probably have to have something that would n't wined up putting their knees when they sat in the back seat . 
something . 
how about you ? 
i like buicks . 
we have a buick century now , 
it 's a nineteen eighty-seven 
and whatever i get , i want to have air bags both driver 's and passenger side and four door because it 's much more convenient if you 're carrying anybody rather than have them stoop down to get over , 
so i think the four door is probably a major requirement 
and , other than that reasonable cost and safety and as much economy as you can get out of a car . 
i 'm not looking for one with a great big engine 
something that will carry it around careful is best way to describe it . 
right now , we 've got a v six 
and that seems to be just fine . 
i know they 're coming out with some v eight now 
and i think that 's probably a little over kill for this day and age . 
i was surprised to hear that the v eights are coming back , 
so , they 've got some pretty powerful sixes . 
and v eights seem to be a return to the days of ten or twelve miles a gallon . 
i drive a ford truck . 
i like trucks because they 're spacious , 
and it 's handy to haul things . 
it 's not related to my business , 
i just really use it , basically , for transportation , 
but there 's so many occasions when i 've had to move some members of the family or do this or that , 
and it 's handy to have a truck and not have to borrow one . 
is traction much of an issue for you up there . 
traction ? 
not really , 
it 's a two wheel drive truck 
and i figure if it 's so bad that i need a four wheel drive , i probably ought to be home anyway . 
actually pretty good way of looking at it , 
we had a small accident with our mini van a few years ago . 
a case where there was a , sort of freak ice storm 
and we were n't aware of it , and just slipped on some black ice and went into another car , 
and , this is a rear wheel drive model . 
so , we got some monster studded snow tires after that . 
have n't had any problems since . 
what make is the mini van ? 
it 's a mazda . 
mazda , 
i see . 
and we 're pleased with it in terms of comfort , and driveability . 
fuel economy is n't great , being a mini van , 
but it 's real nice for carrying around our kids and others 
and it 's got some nice features in terms of being able to remove seats and flip them around 
so we 've been able to do some real creative load hauling when called upon . 
one of my sons has a plymouth van or that same type of thing , the voyager 
and they have a child that 's five years old 
and it 's really handy for hauling him around and their stuff , 
and , of course , as he gets friends , i 'm sure that will be even handier . 
so , i know if we had kids still at home , we 'd certainly have to seriously consider a van just for their functional value . 
i think that we 're going to be owning a mini van for some years to come . 
probably till the kids are out of high school anyway . 
what about all wheel drive ? 
is that something that you 'd be interested in 
i 'd be satisfied with a good front wheel drive car when it comes time to replace the sentra . 
and even as light as that is with the small tires it 's done pretty well in winter , 
again , like you , if conditions are that bad , i probably do n't want to be driving anyway . 
so i know i 'd be happy with a reasonable four door . 
what kind of crime do you think is the most prevalent in our society ? 
probably robberies , people stealing from each other . 
such as new york city ? 
is that what happens up there a lot ? 
that 's mostly what i hear , though , is people getting ripped off and things getting stolen . 
that 's the most prevalent crime . the ones that really add up after a while far as insurance money and stuff like that , insurance costs . 
everybody has to pay for it indirectly eventually . 
i wonder if drug use is a more prevalent crime , though , because so many people use it , 
it is a crime , 
that is a crime . 
speeding is a crime . 
that 's true . 
i break that law every day . 
but i was staying in the realm of felonies versus misdemeanors and drug use , 
actually drug use is probably a misdemeanor , 
have you been the subject of such a crime , such as stealing , or anything ? 
i 've been caught with marijuana before , 
so i guess that was a crime . 
i got a year 's probation for that , 
that 's not that much . 
it was n't that big a deal . 
when i think of crime , i think of stuff that affects other people like people getting killed or raped . 
i think rape is one of the worst crimes . 
i think it is . 
in some ways , it 's almost worse than murder . 
it 's very degrading 
and . 
it is a rather final solution , though . 
but the person that 's been raped has to live with that the rest of their life . 
what do you think is an appropriate punishment for things such as rape or , murder or something like that . 
it 's a pretty good thing . 
i agree with that . 
they have that down here in florida still . 
the electric chair 
i think virginia does , too , up here . 
do they ? 
i think that 's still an appropriate penalty to pay if they absolutely sure they got the right guy 
and , i guess usually they 're always sure they got the right guy , 
i think the appeal process takes too long . 
so do i . 
i think it from conviction to execution should take no longer than a year . 
if that . 
a year 's plenty of time for something to come out , i guess . 
then there 's been guys in jail for six years 
and the other guy admits that he did it 
it 's oops , . 
the system is n't perfect , 
it 's run by a bunch of imperfect humans . 
you do the best you can to make it perfect , 
you go out of your way to try real hard to make it perfect . 
but , i think you have to accept some of the errors . 
i think that murder itself would decrease significantly if there was a credible punishment for murderers . 
i do n't know if it would or not though . 
i do n't think it 's so much of a deterrent as it is a good way for vengeance for the relatives and family members , 
you know what i mean ? 
and society probably , too . 
just general society to , 
it kind of gets it off their chest . 
it does 
and it decreases the prison population . which is significant 
i know that a , lot of murders that you hear about are people that know each other . 
and they 're the , kind of crimes of passion and stuff like that . 
i do n't think you 'll ever stop all that stuff dead , 
you might be able to stop people , 
they 're thinking about it , 
they know they 're going to get the chair if they get caught . 
generally the crimes of passion and things like that are not premeditated . 
they can be , 
but usually they are n't . 
they 're spur of the moment 
that 's right . 
and the premeditated murders , the ones where the person plots and plans , when you catch those individuals , i think that you end up with someone who 's more dangerous to society because they actually could harbor these thoughts for a long time . 
they could probably do it again . 
they would have no problems doing it again . 
that 's right , 
they did n't have any time doing it the first time . 
looks like we 're ready to go . 
capital punishment 
the problem i have with capital punishment is that it 's supposed to be a deterrent to crime , 
but i do n't think that it really actually does that . 
i do n't think it deters anybody , because most of the time crimes are committed without any thought to the consequences 
and they do n't stop and think and say , maybe i should n't do this because i might get the gas chamber or something like that . 
they worry about it afterwards 
and then they try and get out of it . 
and how about you ? 
i think that in some cases , it is warranted . 
i do , too , 
i think in some cases it does n't matter if it 's a deterrent or not . 
you still have to do it . 
i 'm thinking of an extreme case like a serial murderer 
so you 're in favor of capital punishment , then . 
for some things . 
needs to be punished or eliminated from society . 
you ca n't guarantee that they would n't escape from prison and do it again . 
and then do it all over again . 
and i do n't think that rehabilitation is effective . 
have to agree with you , 
and i 'm kind of in favor of capital punishment also . 
i just do n't think that it acts much as a deterrent to these people because you still see them committing the same crimes , 
but , i tend to agree with you that we should have it . 
i do n't know that it 's always effective , 
but i guess we 're kind of stuck with it . 
it 's a difficult problem to determine how you 're going to punish somebody for a particular crime , 
but , then i think that some murderers do n't really warrant capital punishment like , for example you hear about cases where women have killed their husbands who abused them 
and i do n't think , that would really warrant capital punishment . 
. do you think they should be punished at all , or go to prison , 
because they 're not really a danger to society . 
it was almost really self defense in a case like that . 
it is to a certain extent 
i know they put them in jail sometimes . 
and it , just would depend upon the circumstances and the extent of the abuse and if another alternative was available . 
i wonder what you think about this 
and unfortunately , we do n't get to do it , 
but it used to be a long time ago if somebody did something , for example , to your family , then you had the right to administer the punishment . 
so if somebody killed somebody in your family , then if that person was caught and found guilty , you had the right to , execute that person . 
and i know that if somebody had done something to my family , i would feel that i had the right to get revenge on them 
but , i do n't think that 's done much anywhere . 
that 's kind of drastic punishment . 
i think that would be kind of drastic punishment . 
might make you feel better 
but , one thing , i think that if there is a chance for rehabilitation then that chance should be investigated . 
but , like i said , if someone is just pathologically going to murder people no matter what then i think they should be eliminated from society . 
because they 're a danger to everybody else . 
that 's interesting . 
i have to agree with that . 
there 's a lot of folks , probably , that are in prison , that are n't really a danger to society , 
and a lot of people that are a danger to society that are n't in prison . 
probably more of them then the other way around . 
interesting . 
not sure 
i 'm in washington , d c or at least very close to it . 
i 'm not sure what kind of capital punishment we have here . 
i know in north carolina , we do have capital punishment . 
and i 'm from south carolina . 
it sounds like you 've got a television going on there , 
i can assume that you probably watch the t v news . 
i almost never watch t v news . 
i get most of my news driving back and forth to work listening to the radio . 
what station do you listen to ? 
it 's a local radio station . 
it 's called k l i f , cliff . 
cliff , 
i see , 
it 's not affiliated with anything , is it . 
it 's not a network station . 
because i listen to public radio a lot 
and they have k c r w , which they may be trying to start their own cable tv outlet . 
they 're getting a little feisty now . 
this station has a lot of just ongoing news 
and occasionally in the morning , i 'll pick up something like c n n or that , 
but i hate watching the ten o'clock news 
we have dallas morning news which is the big paper in dallas . 
i read it pretty much from cover to cover . 
how do you like it ? 
it 's been a while since i read the dallas news . 
fact , last time i read the dallas news i was in arkansas . 
the times herald went out of business here 
and so we really only have one dallas newspaper and one , fort worth newspaper . 
that must be pretty bad . 
how did that happen , anyway ? 
financial trouble . 
not how , 
when did it happen ? 
i guess they closed down about three months ago . 
how do you keep up ? 
i read the times , los angeles times . 
there 's , quite a task if you 've ever run into one . 
they 're very voluminous . 
they 're thick . 
if there 's something you want to know , it 's in the times and in detail . 
we used to have two papers here in town 
and then the herald examiner collapsed about two years ago because of just nobody was buying it really . 
so there really is only one major l a now ? 
pretty much . 
there used to be the daily news which runs out of the san fernando valley 
and they 're not bad as far as a local paper goes . 
in fact , it was kind of weird , because i met the editor while i was doing jury service in santa monica one time . 
it was like we just sat around and talk about newspapers and stuff . 
he was a really cool guy . went to columbia university and all this stuff . 
and it 's a pretty good paper , 
but it 's not the times . 
there 's a daily news rack right around the corner from where i live , which means that they 're expanding , i guess . 
and occasionally i pick up time magazine or something if they 've got an interesting lead story , 
i do n't have time . 
i used to read time magazine a lot , 
but i do n't read it much anymore . 
that 's kind of a problem for them . 
there 's a lot of people who fall into that , category . 
and then we have a local rag here in town that i pick up periodically and read just to see what 's going on in our little community . because we do n't get an awful lot of coverage in the dallas morning news . 
i see . 
the big dailies do n't like to step much out of their home turf , 
i have to admit , the times is kind of provincial , too . 
it 's basically anything that 's south of downtown , they do n't bother to cover . 
now , they have started here running a three times a week plano section . 
and it 's just sort of four or five pages that covers what 's going on in plano . 
but it 's still not an awful lot of news . 
i know . 
it was a big discovery when the times found out there was a place called orange county . 
the way they 've been handling it before , they practically acted like their reporters needed to shots to go south of the l a county border . 
i would imagine in dallas they have plenty happening in dallas to cover , that it gets hard covering all of the suburbs 
and , of course , they tend to cover the county , 
and we 're not in dallas county , 
so they tend to ignore places outside of the county . 
i find that attitude kind of arrogant , though . 
it 's you 're taking our money , but you 're not bothering to cover the things that are interesting to us . 
i get a lot of my news driving home from work listening to all things considered on national public radio . 
that is one of my big sources for current events information . 
i really like that coverage . 
my wife on the other hand is home most of the day 
and she watches a lot of the cable news network . 
have you ever heard of all things considered ? 
we do n't have the national public radio in my area . 
i can hear it at the college town nearby when i 'm in stillwater , which is about an hour away , 
but the f m signal does n't reach this far . 
i 'll listen to shortwave quite a bit . 
it gives you a whole different perspective on the news when you hear it from a european point of view , or from the country of origin . 
i agree with you , too , on the cable channel , c n n and headline news . 
i 'm not too satisfied with our local newspaper which is why i rely on shortwave and then the cable , c n n . 
i 'm interested in the shortwave aspect of it . 
how do you think that the viewpoints differ ? 
i think a lot of it is just the fact that in the u s you 're so far removed in a lot of cases from conflicts 
or it 's not happening in your backyard 
so it 's not as personal , , 
the news is n't as personal in what we receive domestically than what 's on shortwave . 
they almost take all emotions out of it when they report it 
they seem to give more of just the facts than opinions . 
do you think , then , that the american media is presenting an opinion along with their facts ? 
very much so , 
very much so , 
and i think a lot of it is especially t v news , 
they do n't really have the time and a lot of them do n't have the education and the background to really decipher the news and to really explain it . 
i think it 's important to interpret it , 
but a lot of times the person does n't have the experience to do the interpreting . 
which approach do you find to be more useful , 
the interpretive approach or the straight reporting ? 
i like the straight reporting . 
and then i hope to be able to form my own opinion of it . 
it 's nice to hear someone 's interpretation of it 
i always think it 's humorous when the president gives the state of the union for thirty minutes and then for an hour and a half you hear different commentators explaining what you just heard . 
and a lot of time i do n't hear exactly what they write into it . 
so overall , i think i would rather hear just straight reporting . 
one of the things that i found interesting last year during the gulf conflict was a sentiment against peter arnett , who had stayed in iraq and was presenting some of the things that were available . 
there was a piece where he was showing a bombed out building where there was obviously a hastily erected sign saying baby milk factory , 
and while he was being severely censored and could not make any judgment call on this , it was fairly obvious that it was a piece of propaganda , 
but people were really down on him for reporting the fact that , this is n't a baby milk factory , 
how could he say it was , 
i think that to me showed that the americans were really getting used to having not just the facts , but also the conclusions and opinions spoon fed to them . 
i think people have that opinion . 
you go first . 
i have two kids , 
i have one seven and one five 
and they 're in a public school here in tyler 
and i 'm happy with it . 
i 'm happy with the school , 
it 's great , 
good teachers 
good curriculum 
they learn a lot , 
they have no problems , 
but i do live in the best part of the city , though , 
i live in the real richy part , i guess . 
i 'm not , 
but , everybody around me is 
i have friends that live in the other , the less fortunate or whatever you want to call it part of town 
and their schools are kind of rundown and older 
and they do n't really offer as much as the school that my girls are in . 
i do n't really think that 's fair . 
but i 'm happy with what they 're in , 
go ahead . 
it 's pretty much what i was going to say is there 's a lot of disparity between different neighborhoods and what sort of schools go in . 
i grew up in new york 
or not new york city , upstate new york 
and i went to the city of rochester school district 
and a lot of my friends were in one of the neighboring suburbs 
and we were n't too far removed geographically from each other , 
but the difference in schools was pretty substantial 
and one of the things that probably would have been better is if the entire county had just one school system . 
and that could result in more equitable distribution of money 
because what was happening was all the very rich people move out to the suburbs 
and the city had a very low tax base 
so they did n't have a lot of money to work with . 
as a result , the schools were rundown , 
there was n't as many of the nice supplies in science class that we would have liked . 
there was n't as many advanced placement courses when i was a senior that some other schools had . 
so i think that one of the ways to help schools in general and get them all to a minimum level of competency almost , would be to expand the size of school districts so you get a wider variety of people , 
and the problem with that is then the rich people will either pull their kids out of the public school and put them in private schools or they 'll move farther away to get better schools . 
it 's kind of , you end up , like a dog chasing its own tail sort of . 
you can come to south tyler where i live 
and you have got room mothers in every room , 
you 've got art mothers , 
you 've got every holiday , 
there 's parties . 
all these kids have these really supportive parents , always up there for something . 
you can go to north tyler to the schools 
and the parents might not could even tell you what their kid 's teacher 's name is , 
that has a whole lot to do with it , 
as far as their learning if the parents are n't willing to go with the kids and find out what they 're learning and if they 're learning they really do n't have much of a chance at all . 
why is that ? 
why is that ? 
why you asking , 
they just do n't , 
i 'm up there at my kids ' school , 
i know what they 're learning 
and if they 're up , i call and find out , 
is she having problems , 
does she need help with anything , 
she 's doing fine , 
and i know kids that their parents could really give a rip 
and the kids are not motivated . 
they have no motivation from home , 
so they just go to school 
and i 'll get through the day , and bring homework home 
and , there 's nobody to sit them down and say , you 're going to do this . 
just they take a notion to do it , 
they do , 
and that does n't work either , 
they have to have guidance 
and they ca n't just have it at school and then come home 
and there 's nothing . 
i know that that was a big factor for me . 
i ended up coming out of the public school system very well 
and was very good education , 
ended up getting some scholarships to go to college which is really nice , 
and i think the difference for me was that they were always there , 
of course you 're going to study and do well 
so what kind of luck you been having with buying and returning products ? 
not too bad really . 
i had a razor that i got from christmas that i really did n't want it , 
but i got it anyway 
and it was a braun 
and they were real good about taking it back . 
it was n't a problem at all , 
so i was able to get that back pretty easily . 
but i do n't know , 
i really have n't returned a whole lot lately . 
have you ? 
i have n't had to . 
every so often i 'm almost pushing it myself . 
maybe i 'll buy a shirt from g i joe 's 
and it shrinks too much 
and say , i should have known better , 
i bought it from g i joe 's 
and it was probably made in china by slaves . 
i get pretty good stuff . 
and if you want to buy american , it takes real extra work to find . 
it 's probably a japanese or a burmese company owning and hiring people in the u s . 
i was reading something in consumer reports tonight about that as a matter of fact . 
they were talking about cars and about how you 'd like to buy an american car maybe 
but the transmission may be made in japan or whatever . 
i 've got an eighty-six ford ranger 
and i know for a fact that the transmission is made by mitsubishi . 
so it 's what are you going to do ? 
but that 's the way it is . 
i do n't know , 
i personally feel that if the japanese cars are better and americans buy them that 's the way it goes 
and manufacturers should get a clue 
and they should start making quality products . 
the days of do n't buy a car made on a monday or a friday are pretty much going away 
that 's what i thought , too , until i saw the consumer reports issue . 
they 've got all the cars rated , 
and essentially , i do n't see much of a trend . 
just every other time that you look at it , the honda accords and the civics are right up there . 
there 's nothing wrong with them . 
and the same thing with most of the other japanese cars . 
but then again you look at a ford or especially a chevy 
and they 're pieces of junk . 
i know . 
still at it , 
that 's eighty-six through ninety-one . 
but i do n't know , 
maybe they 're getting better , 
maybe they 're starting to get a clue . 
they got a three year lead time . 
it probably wo n't start really showing up until ninety-four or so . 
that 's just it . 
technology that comes in right now is probably not going to be implemented until quite a few years down the road . 
the computer industry 's where it 's really dynamic especially for the consumer . 
because technology is so volatile and changing all the time . 
or maybe i say , you paid five hundred bucks for this program , 
so send us twenty 
and we 'll give you a really great upgrade . 
they keep up with it pretty quickly 
and that 's a real good thing , i guess . 
i do n't know . 
and the hardware all the chips that make up the hardware are a commodity 
and the macintosh is about the only one that 's going right forcing i b m and the rest of the d o s world to follow along . 
they 're kind of the leaders right now . 
i used to see all those commercials for windows , 
and you 're they 're reselling a macintosh under a different name . 
why do n't they just say , almost a mac for half the price . 
. 
they 'd sell more if they were honest . 
almost is the key word , there , too because i 've used both 
and i really do n't see an advantage of windows at all . 
it 's only an advantage for people who had to use pure d o s . base . 
that 's true , too . 
but i do n't know , 
i 've gotten a little bit out of the personal computer business just because i do n't have one at home . 
i do use a mac at work 
but i really do n't do much with it at home 
if you bought a power book straight off , a lot of them had to go back . 
they issued a recall because of improper shielding or possibly other problems with floppy drive . 
you sound like you must work in the computer business . 
i have one , 
i do desktop publishing at work 
and i have a machine at home 
and i belong to the user 's group 
and i 've been a mac fanatic since they came out . 
but technically , i 'm not actually in the industry . 
i do n't work . 
i 'm an abuser . 
that 's all right . 
but it 's sort of like surfing on the wave of future shock to keep up with the changes as they happen . 
that 's true . 
something that i find uncomfortable is you want to buy something , 
say you want to buy a personal computer 
and you got to think about what kind of memory you want to get and what kind of technology that you want to go for , 
what baud rate do you get ? 
i have a nineteen eighty-four nissan truck 
i had a tune up done 
and i had the brakes done on it 
and then , the reason i did that was because i do n't have a scope 
and it has eight spark plugs 
and it 's hard to get at them 
and plus the time on them . 
i just do n't have time any more . 
as far as maintenance tasks that i do myself , i usually change the oil and wash the air filter 
and i had an occasion to have to change the battery once , 
i do have the background . 
i know what needs to be done 
and i know that the oil should be changed very regularly and all of the bearings 
and the lubrication system needs to be lubricated 
and so i stay on top of that 
i wanted the bearings packed 
and they wanted something like fifteen dollars a front or something like that 
or maybe it was thirty dollars to do it 
just to pack the bearings ? 
just to pack the bearings , 
but what i found is that they had a brake job 
the other thing i let them do some times is that i let them go through and let them do the diagnostics . 
that 's free , 
and then i can decide whether i want them to do it or whether i can do it . 
and they told me that my brake pads were seventy percent still good , 
but still it was cheaper in the long run 
so i just got the brakes done 
and i thought that was a good deal . 
and they repacked the wheel bearings . 
and they repacked the wheel bearings . 
but i 've had considerable experience . 
you might say i 'm , uh , good back yard mechanic 
and i took auto shop in high school , 
it 's been a while back , 
but i still have a pretty good feel for it , 
i had bigger cars 
and the brakes go out fairly rapidly on those 
i bought the truck with about sixty thousand , 
i have almost one hundred and ten , 
so i drove on those brake pads for forty-five thousand miles 
and there was hardly any wear to them . 
so those small little trucks and cars like that , the longevity of the brake pads is really good . 
they 've gotten to the point where they do n't weigh very much 
and the surface materials on the pads is so good . 
so i just did it anyway . 
i like to stay up on it . 
i just kind of stay up on it 
and then if you go and just about any point in time and pull my dip stick and pull it out and look at the oil , the oil is a white golden brown . 
it 's not dirty . 
i keep it that way because that is the key to the longevity . 
it sounds like you 've had some good experiences with that 
and my experiences have been kind of contrary to that . 
i get a little more involved in the maintenance of my car 
and in fact i have an eighty-seven mustang with a three o two in it that i 've beefed up a little bit 
and one of the things that i did was to change the pulley system on it to use under drive pulleys so that the engine does n't have to turn the accessories and can use more of the power to the rear wheels 
the only catch was the first set of under drive pulleys that i put on it were not even cast aluminum . 
they were just pressed aluminum . 
you 're talking about the vibration dampener ? 
there 's three pulleys that you change . 
you change the crank pulley the alternator pulley and the water pump pulley . 
that 's the vibration dampener , 
when i changed those over , i put on these pressed aluminum things 
and probably about four months ago the water pump decided to go out . 
so in the process of seizing , the belt spun on the pulley and wore through the water pump pulley almost all the way . but not far enough to notice . 
i was on my way to work one day 
and the water pump pulley split laterally in half . 
so there was half a water pump pulley still attached to the water pump 
and the other half was kind of dangling off the end of the crank 
do you all have a budget ? 
we do . 
we 've been married for twenty-three years 
and we have three teenage daughters 
and they 're very expensive . 
so we have somewhat of a system . 
it 's kind of hard to explain . 
we 've actually gone just recently , to having two checking accounts . 
we always had just one . 
and now we are having two . 
it 's kind of hard to talk about this because to me it 's very personal . 
that 's kind of the way i feel about it . 
my wife handles a lot of the day to day finances 
and of course , we 're like a lot of people . 
we just scramble through month to month . 
do you have a two income family or one income ? 
we have a two income family . 
she also works 
but she enjoys it 
and she 's good at it . 
i 'm pretty bad about procrastinating 
and one of these days i am going to do something about that i believe . 
you know how that goes , 
she handles it pretty well . 
she writes all the checks once a month . 
is her career related to finance or accounting ? 
she 's an annuity administrator 
and so she works for an insurance company . 
but she enjoys it . 
she likes keeping track of all that stuff 
so that 's sort of related to her field a little bit . 
sort of . 
and we 've experimented with , budgets from time to time , 
you have to keep up with them . 
so a lot of times , we just kind of play it by ear . 
we try to keep our retirement and our savings kind of automated 
so we never see that money . 
just taken directly . 
it 's just taking it out . 
we do the same thing . 
and that 's kind of handy . 
because if you do n't see it , you do n't miss it . 
you do n't spend it . 
you have something to take it out . 
that 's exactly what we 've always done 
they 've always had , where they match your funds , 
sometimes if you save so much , then they will match it . 
we 've done that too . 
but , my husband works for an insurance company 
and he has now for about ten years . 
but he was with another company before that , 
i work also , 
but i only have a part time job 
and i get paid very little 
jim gives me a certain amount . 
we just transfer it into my account 
and then i use that for food , household expenses , 
and then i add my own check to that 
and then with that i try and handle some of the clothes that the girls need and things like that , 
it sounds like you all pretty much do it the same we do . 
just kind of play it by ear , but keep the deductions . 
jim has a budget . 
i mean he works it out every month and breaks it all down . 
i am given so much money a month , 
so i am suppose to kind of get the food out of that . 
i do n't ask for more . 
i just try and make it on that . 
because i think when you go to the grocery store , you can go crazy with all the choices that you have 
and you can really waste a lot of money that way . 
how long have you been married ? 
about five years . 
so you 're just really getting started . 
so do you have a family too ? 
i 've got one little girl . 
she 's nineteen months . 
she has n't effected your budget yet really . 
not really . 
not too bad . . 
not like she will later on . 
you will see that all of a sudden you 're trying to decide whether you are going to do soccer and piano and all these choices that they have of activities to do 
and then you really have to start saying now what can we afford , 
what can we do here 
and then you have to really sit down and plan some more 
but i think when we were back at your age , we did n't have much of a budget 
and then as the girls got older , i think we did more and more of that . 
more budgeting as they got older . 
but what do you do ? 
i 'm an electronic technician . 
i work for a university . georgia tech research 
we have a good friend that 's about to move to atlanta . 
i guess we 're not suppose to talk about those things . 
i 'd better get back to the subject . 
but budgeting . 
i found i feel a lot better . 
we use to work out of one check book 
and it would be very hard for me because i would n't have any idea how much money i was spending in one month . 
now , i know exactly what i 'm spending 
and it 's so much easier , 
. have you heard about saturns ? 
i 've heard some about saturns . 
i do n't know a lot about them . 
i have n't been over to a dealer to look at them although i did see something in tonight 's paper that said that their reliability is rated to be equal to that of the japanese cars . 
that 's great . 
actually that 's kind of the type of car that i 'm thinking about we might get . 
saturns , you ca n't go to a dealer unless you go to a saturn dealer . this offshoot of g m . 
and supposedly , they 've got great customer satisfaction from what things i 've heard . 
i 've heard a lot of people like them . 
yet i do n't know whether i would buy saturn or not at this point . 
my card and desires tend to be pretty picky 
like what ? 
let 's see . 
i like cars that are designed with human beings in mind , 
and that 's not just the driver and the passenger 
but that 's the person who 's working on it , 
cause i do almost all my own maintenance and those types of things . 
almost unlikely at this point . 
i 've got a sixty-five mustang 
and i do most of the work on that myself . 
and when i look at modern cars and stuff like that , i just say i will never do that with the modern cars . 
it 's not worth my time . 
you ca n't get in there . 
you ca n't do anything . 
and it 's so complicated too . 
i look at it 
and i say , boy , 
i 'd have to almost go take a class or something like that . 
i 've got an eighty-three saab . 
and i find that for everyday things . it 's really very easy to work on 
and i 'm kind of spoiled . 
i used to have a chevy . 
with a three fifty in it . 
and i really liked working on it . cause it was pretty easy too . 
it was about a nineteen seventy . 
so i 'm kind of biased in that 
and i want a car that i can work on because i think it just costs too much even to get the oil changed anymore . 
and that 's probably one thing i 'd look at . 
i think another thing i 'd look at is safety . 
that 's one of the things that my wife and i have thought about . 
actually , one of the cars we 'd most like to get would be the new ninety-one ford taurus cause they 're actually one of the cheaper cars that have dual side air bags . 
that 's a real nice car , i think . 
i 've driven some tauruses over the last couple of years when i 've been on business trips . as rental cars . 
and i 've always been very impressed with the taurus . 
it 's a really nice car . 
i think , it 's a stylish car both inside and out . 
it 's comfortable to drive . 
reasonable performance , 
and this is out in california where they do n't make a car that 's got reasonable performance anymore . 
i 've been real impressed with that . 
and i did n't realize that they were putting dual air bags in that car now . 
ninety , 
or the ninety-twos . 
the ninety-twos had dual air bags . 
this newest model . you could get them with duals . 
i think that , that 's excellent . 
but the thing is that it 's twenty thousand dollars . 
actually , my wife and i are actually contemplating buying a new car in the next year and a half or so . 
so we 're actually been looking around and thinking about things . 
i do n't know . 
what do you call it ? 
a dealer return type thing on a ninety-two and ninety-three or something like that . 
year old ninety-two or something like that . 
that would be a good deal to go with . 
and the other thing we 're looking at is the saturns too . 
because they looked really nice . 
what do you looking for in those ? 
what attracts you to the saturns ? 
the taurus is safe . 
but what kind of things are you looking for ? 
the saturns you can get air bags in them . 
i do n't think you can get dual side air bags . 
i 'd say the most important thing is a car that 's not going to fall apart . that does n't have problems . 
you set down . 
you look at consumer reports . 
we 've been pouring over consumer reports 
and you just get so depressed for the u s auto makers when you do that . 
because you see the reliability and the types of problems they have 
and the two cars that apparently are close to that . that actually have high reliability , the taurus is one of the highest u s cars . 
and the other one are the saturns . 
and then we kind of want a four door . 
what is your community currently doing with regard to recycling ? 
basically , they 're just having various recycling bins located for trash pickup . 
that 's more than we have up here in massachusetts . 
some local communities are very active in that respect 
and they do have bins set up . 
but i live in a metropolitan area 
and they 're not too inclined to do something as aggressive as that . 
live in an apartment complex . 
and they only have one set of recycling bins , one or two sets as opposed to a set at each of the dumpsters . 
so a lot of the people who live up front do n't bother to recycle because it 's too far to carry the stuff to the other bins . 
i think a lot of the issues with regard to recycling are that people have to be motivated to do something like that because it does take extra effort . 
a bottle bill was passed 
and we have had a bottle bill for quite a few years now , 
that 's the majority of people that i know of anyways . 
where people are n't really eco conscious . it 's just the fact that it 's something they have to do . 
and i 'm not going to throw a bottle away , 
it 's like throwing a nickel away . 
that type of thing . 
here they 're trying to push through a bill 
but people need to be more conscious of it . 
and a lot of people are against it . 
and it 's going to create a lot more work for the stores that sell sodas and stuff . 
because they want to implement a refund on cans and on plastic bottles and everything . 
it took awhile for that bill to be passed up here as far as recycling bottles and cans . 
and matter of fact , i think it took three tries for it to go through . 
and it 's been pretty successful 
people would have a drink of soda , 
instead of throwing out the window , they keep the bottle 
so it 's been a ecologically sound policy as far as recycling your bottles in terms of trash and so forth . 
but more importantly , it 's recycling reusable materials back into manufacturing . 
and that 's the big thing that they try to promote . 
i think here instead of just requiring that you put out the trash and stuff , if they could get some kind of rebate , those people who do put the stuff out and separate it , have lower collection fee or something may encourage people to separate . 
that 's a good idea . 
there definitely has to be a motivation factor 
i work for a defense contractor . 
and there 's a big push on for recycling paper materials computer output paper and also to decrease the amount of styrofoam usage because of the process involved in styrofoam and the whole eco issue and that . 
and they 're very proactive 
and matter of fact , they give you discounts if you use china wear rather than styrofoam stuff , 
so , it 's incentives like that that get people more conscious of it . 
i think that 's what they need to do . be more proactive like that . 
i believe it was last year that they actually collected the old phone books . 
usually have them come from projects to collect old ones . 
usually just get dumped out with the trash . 
and phone books are a large volume of annual trash . 
the local schools , you could send your phone book with your kid to school 
and what they 'll do is they 'll recycle it . 
because there was an article or a story done awhile ago that the telephone books are the type of thing that do n't break down over a long period of time . 
a guy went to a landfill , dug down five feet and pulled up a phone book from nineteen sixty 
because they do n't degrade over such a period of time . 
part of the problem with recycling them in the past has been the covers are made with a clay based paper . 
they contain the glue and stuff 
and they used to have to take out all the pages and then cut the spine off to be able to recycle them . 
now i think they 've come up with some way of pulling the glue out . 
let 's see . 
how about about ten years ago , 
what do you think was different ten years ago from now ? 
i would say as , far as social changes go i think families were more together . 
they did more things together . 
they ate dinner at the table together . 
the parents usually took out more time than they do now to come with the children and just spend the day doing a family activity . 
although i 'm not a mother , i still think that a lot has changed since ten years ago . 
what do you think about that ? 
actually ten years from today seems rather short . 
but i do agree that generally society has sort of rushed everything ahead . 
and i do n't know , 
it leaves a lot of time out for family and things like that . 
in other words , they just prioritize their lives differently . 
but i think that has a lot to do with economic situation . 
what about as far as social changes in the individual ? 
do you think that the individual has as much time as they did ten , twenty years ago ? 
. it depends . 
it 's hard to say because i think people were busy ten twenty years ago too . 
how old are you ? 
i 'm twenty-eight . 
twenty-eight . 
i 'm twenty-three . 
so there 's maybe a five year gap between us . 
i think that things have been busy all along . 
it 's just a matter . and that usually as far as families are concerned , there used to be just one person working and usually the other parent was home . 
and now it 's pretty much an economic necessity in most places for both parents to work . 
do you think it 's an economic necessity 
or do you think that we 're , all trying to keep up with a certain standard of living ? 
i think that 's part of it too . 
do you think , people really need two cars and a house in the suburbs 
i do n't . 
i do n't think that . 
but then there are a lot of people that do n't have that . but , that really do need to work . 
and then there , is that other group that is working to maintain a standard of living that they think is surviving which is really more luxuries . 
but i tend to think that it 's less those people that have the two cars and everything than it is the group that is just trying to survive . 
which group are you saying is the one trying ? 
i 'm saying that the group that is just trying to survive from day to day , where both parents are working is more of the majority than the people that have the higher standard of living . 
because if you look at economics across this country and statistics on who has the money and who i think that that 's , in my opinion , the case . 
i have met people that just want to maintain the standard of living and those that really need the job . 
i guess we 're sticking more to social changes 
but people want all of that 
and not all of those are necessities . 
it has become a necessity . 
sort of the reason we 're going through the school system 
i seem to be younger than most people who talk on this thing . 
i 'm just graduating from college . 
i did n't really perceive much of a problem with the school system . 
you can compare just about thing to japan 
and we look like we do n't have anything . 
it seems to be not difficult enough for students . not challenging enough . and just not generally competitive enough . 
however , if it were n't for our needless competition with japan , i 'd think that , the school system works at a pretty good pace . 
i do n't know . 
it 's been seventy-nine since i was at high school . 
and i 've seen things change . 
because i was n't really listening to the world go by back then 
so it 's hard to compare . 
you know what i mean ? 
i 've lived down here . 
i hear the dropout rates from the schools , 
and i certainly see how much i pay in real estate taxes every year . 
and i begin to wonder if i 'm really getting my money 's worth . 
i 've seen so many different things . so many different bad reports coming out of the school system 
and i recognize that there are good schools out there . 
somebody 's getting a good education because we , continue to employ people . 
but i do n't understand , why the schools seem to have such a high dropout rate in the big cities . 
i do n't pretend to understand that either . 
but i 'm not quite sure that it 's the kind of thing that ought to be blamed on the schools . 
it 's high in those areas where also there 's poverty and crime . 
and they all seem to go together . 
and it seems like if you could eliminate one of the parts of that circle , where you have the dropout rate and crime and general poverty kind of conditions , that things ought to get better . 
they 're all three social issues and could be addressed by the government in any ways . and clearly , to me , is a kind of government thing to fix 
but it 's just like , i do n't expect them to know which part is best to fix just like i do n't know . 
it 's a complicated issue . 
i still do n't think i would blame it directly on the school . 
i do n't know if i blame it on the school . 
i think i blame it on a couple of different things . 
i think i blame it on the school system . , 
that 's . 
they do quite well for themselves . 
that 's odd because i do n't think the teachers in my school district were well paid . 
not all school districts are well paid . 
but there are some school districts out there that are very well paid . 
they 're both teachers , 
and they both have second jobs that they work in the afternoons . 
they both work all summer full-time . 
and from their teaching job alone , they pull in forty grand each . 
that family is making over a hundred grand . 
i agree that teaching our kids is important . 
and they only work nine months a year 
and they get an awful lot of breaks in between 
and that 's my tax dollars that i 'm spending on that . 
and i do n't even have kids . 
that 's true . 
you can always play games with talking about , look at this . 
my tax dollars are paying for this . 
this is wrong . 
and there 's really not much you can directly do about that . 
you have other professional jobs 
and this is a profession . 
are you into the cowboys ? 
i 'm not , 
i have n't been , 
i grew up in dallas 
but i 'm still not a cowboys ' man . 
i like philadelphia eagles . 
that 's all right . 
that 's my favorite team , 
now that randall 's coming back next season , i hope they 'll do a little bit better . 
they did n't do too bad last season . 
but , i hope they can do better . 
how about yourself ? 
i do n't know . 
i kind of go back and forth depending on who 's really hot and who 's not . 
i guess i 'm kind of a fair weather fan in a lot of respects . 
but i guess if i have my druthers , i 'd probably go for the seattle seahawks . 
i kind of like them . 
that 's another one of my favorites . 
they 're not my favorite totally . 
but i do like them . 
seahawks are good . 
now that steve largent is gone , i kind of lose a little bit for them 
to be honest with you , i probably watch college a little bit more than i do pro . 
i kind of like college actually . 
quite a bit . 
that 's kind of strange . 
it 's too much running for me in college football . 
i like the pros . 
is it ? 
it 's more high tech , 
that could be . 
when you 're getting paid millions to do it , i think they take it to another level . 
but i can see it 's more grunted out , run the ball type . 
college football is a little bit different 
you probably would n't like my favorite team in college then . 
who 's that ? 
notre dame ? 
i root for nebraska quite a bit . 
nebraska . 
there 's a running team . 
that 's boring for me . 
i 'll take the passing teams any day . 
i can see definitely how you get into that . 
to be honest with you , i find that too much running gets pretty boring as well 
it 's four yards , three yards eight yards , tackle . 
it gets kind of monotonous . 
after awhile , i prefer a nice forty yard flea flicker every now and then just to juice it up a little bit 
i think they 're starting to realize that . 
a lot of the big eight teams that used to run so much . i think they 're starting to realize that they just ca n't compete anymore . 
it 's high dollar . 
it 's all money now . 
even college is all can we get on t v 
this world league is coming in ? 
that 's getting ready to start up ? 
have you followed that very much 
not really . 
i do n't think anything will ever take over the n f l . 
i think it 's an institution . 
it 's like if we tried to start something to take over major league baseball . 
it can take over part of it . 
it can take over a small market share 
it 's going to take a little bit . 
some people are going to watch it 
but it 's not going to be wide spread super bowl and every sunday afternoon or anything . 
it 's never going to reach that standard 
i think i agree with you . 
it 's kind of interesting to see their claim of world football . 
it 's kind of strange . 
i guess we 're the only ones , who take it that far . 
actually i kind of like soccer . 
i 've never really played it 
but i like the idea . 
it 's an interesting game to watch . 
that and rugby . 
i like to watch , rugby every now and then . 
or australian rules football . 
whatever you want to call it there . 
that 's some brutal stuff there . 
that 's worse than football as far as violence i think . 
those guys kill each other out there . 
rugby is something else . 
. 
there 's definitely an element of stupidity in there somewhere . 
that 's just wild . 
that 's why it 's a big college thing . 
rugby is definitely big in college because it 's something a bunch of fraternity guys can get together and get a good beer buzz going and do . 
so 
i could see the feel for that . 
but it 's fun to play . 
i 'll give it that . 
you 've played it then ? 
but i do n't think rugby will ever be professional 
i doubt it . 
not in this country anyway . 
you ca n't stay healthy and do that . 
that 's a rough game . 
it is . 
but i do n't know . 
i do n't know how my eagles are going to do this year . 
the seahawks are an up and down kind of team . 
they really are . 
it 's kind of odd . 
my roommate that i live with here he 's lived in pennock , minnesota . 
do you know where that is ? 
i do n't . 
it 's a small town . 
it 's in central minnesota . 
it 's a couple of hours west of minneapolis . 
to tell you the truth , i 'm not even really from here . 
you just live there now . 
i 'm up here for a year on an internship . 
but i actually live in florida . 
live in florida . 
like the seahawks . 
who the heck is going to root for tampa bay ? 
i 've only been to philadelphia twice 
i guess i could go for miami 
but i do n't know . 
i root for nebraska 
so i do n't have a real love for miami anyway . 
but , i do n't know , 
one of the things that i found to be an invasion is when i pay for something with a credit card and they ask me to put my telephone number on the , credit card bill . 
that is something that is not required 
and , in fact it is actually prohibited 
but it does n't stop many people from doing it . 
and it 's one of the things that it 's used for , primarily , is for demographic research . and to get your phone number on lists for phone solicitations . 
i 've always done that . 
once i found out that that 's really not necessary or legal then i just refuse 
and i say what are you going to do . 
you going to say you do n't want to sell me this product then that 's fine . 
i 'll just buy it somewhere else or not buy it at all . 
and then , ultimately , they say , no 
you do n't have to put it down . 
but really it 's part of this compliance thing . 
i know that certain states actually sell their lists like motor vehicles . 
that really burns me because you 're required . 
you have to do that . 
and nowhere does it asks you whether you have permission or not to sell your name or information regarding that to anyone . 
and i think that , it 's one thing to , voluntarily give it because someone asks . 
you can always refuse 
but it 's another thing where it 's required by law 
and then they go ahead and take that information and sell it to somebody , 
i do n't think they have the right to do that . 
i agree with you there . 
that 's something that people have seen . 
here 's an easy way to make some money . 
but i do n't know if that 's been challenged in the courts or not . 
i 've heard , fairly recently some talk about that in my state . 
the budget problems up here are pretty tense . 
enhancing revenue is the phrase they use . 
and they were talking about selling the d m v lists 
and there was a lot of , consternation about that 
and the last i heard they 'd backed down from that idea . 
but it really makes you wonder what other lists you 're own that have been made public that you , do n't know about . 
that 's easy . 
whenever you donate money to someone ? 
you become , put on something like a sucker list 
and you start getting millions of calls or solicitations . 
it kind of makes you feel from doing it again . 
like national public radio or any of the public stations . 
i think i sent in money , once to public t v . 
and i started getting calls from all sorts of diseases and syndromes and everything you could imagine . 
and it just started soon after i had done that one . 
and i just said this is terrible . 
and that 's also happened to me where i 've given money to my old alma mater in college . 
and it 's one thing , 
they do n't sell the list . 
the people do these phonathons 
and they call you up 
and they actually happen to be people who graduated in your class or something like that . 
and they say , we know you . 
you had contributed x amount last year . 
can you do better this year ? 
and hold on here . 
how do you know that ? 
how do you know that ? 
why you even telling me this ? 
is it any of your business ? 
it 's one thing that i , and the college knows that 
that 's , just our business . 
there 's no need for someone who is soliciting should know at all . 
and that was very offensive too . 
last year , the lotus development company , the company that puts out one , two , three was planning on marketing a c d rom with people 's names sorted by number of different criteria . 
julie are you in a situation where you 'd soon need to deal with special care for elderly ? 
i do n't know . 
my grandfather is ninety-two years old . 
and he is still living by himself . 
my grandmother died a couple of years ago . 
but he does n't want to move away . 
he lives in a little farmhouse on a farm . 
and he recently had to have an operation 
but he just really does n't want to go to a nursing home . 
is he able to still do everything himself pretty well ? 
he was until this operation . 
he has arthritis . 
and now i do n't really think he 's doing that well . 
and a lot of my aunts and uncles live near him . 
and i have one aunt that really looks after him a lot . 
but my great-grandfather was put in a nursing home when he was a hundred and three . 
and died six weeks after they put him in the home . 
and i 'm sure that kind of thing would influence your grandfather 's feelings . 
because i think for a lot of people it really is the decision of , do they still have some of their life left . 
and , for , a lot of people going into a nursing home it 's like saying my life is over 
and i 'm just here for the rest of the stay . 
and so i guess most of the time when i think about somebody going into a nursing home , it 's more a case of where they are not able to look after their day-to-day needs . 
they can look after a lot of things 
but there 's some of the day-to-day needs that they just are not able to deal with physically anymore . 
i know none of my grandparents were in a nursing home . 
they generally were able to have someone care for them at home 
and they died . 
but they were all younger than your grandparents . 
they were in their eighties . that type of thing . 
i guess when i think nursing home i do think of people that are not able to take care of themselves physically . , 
but i just do n't think that nursing homes really do a very good job . 
and that 's difficult part . 
because i think what they often get used as is almost like a very high level or long-term care similar to a hospital . 
i know here in saskatchewan , we have our hospital care the care actually for the older people graded in four levels . 
and a level four type of care would be someone that really requires long-term hospital care . generally are not able to look after themselves to a very great extent , physically . 
often times they even have mental difficulty with senility or alzheimer 's disease or physical and mental handicaps . where they really require twenty-four hour supervision of some kind . even though it may be minimal . 
but i think that it can be helpful in that it gets people the level of physical care they need . , 
at least i think some nursing homes do that . 
but i think a lot of nursing homes really are guilty of neglect . 
and i think it happens more in areas where it 's a broad social medical system where there 's government medical care and that kind of thing . 
if it 's the lot where it 's funded by the individuals 
and i guess that 's sort of my lack of understanding . 
i think that a majority of the places in the u s there is some government aid available , 
but the majority of it is to the availability of the individual to pay . 
actually , to tell you the truth , i think jury selection is a prime discussion topic in terms of possible improvements on finding of guilt . 
i certainly ca n't argue with that . 
definitely does need some improvements . 
and the lawyers can throw people out for no reason whatsoever just because they want to . 
i think there 's a limit on that . 
the , peremptory challenges are limited to , i do n't know how many , 
i think it 's , four or five , 
but you can , 
i ca n't remember which . 
i was on a jury trial last year 
only i got kicked out as the last selection that the defense got . 
it seems to me i 'm always challenged peremptorily also when i go to these things . 
i think i have a severe demeanor or something . 
but typically , everyone gets involved in the jury process 
and i suppose an elitist might say , you really want someone who is well educated to be able to winnow the facts from the prejudice . 
but it still has to be a group of your peers . 
you want a nincompoop jury because they 'll sympathize with you a bit as well as hopefully being honest people and do their best to comply with the facts as they were presented to them . 
so , that 's why the defense is there picking through them , whereas at the same time the prosecutor sitting there picking through them because he wants somebody who will give him a guilty verdict if the facts warrant . 
so i think the jury selection process is pretty neat , 
but i do n't think that the jury ought to be the ones picking the punishment afterwards . 
i think that should be left up to people who have some knowledge in the subject and more knowledge than a jury would have . 
you 're talking about , the person 's already been found guilty 
and many times i 've seen on trials they have on t v , 
the jury will make a recommendation as to leniency or as to the death penalty or whatever , 
but i think that it should be up to the judge and the lawyers to make the decision as to what the actual penalty will be . 
maybe just the judge because they 're the people who know what the system is and what it 's all about and believe in the system . 
and i think that would provide a more fair sentencing procedure . as opposed to an emotional sentencing procedure . also , may be a more consistent sentencing procedure . 
i suppose you may be right on that . 
preceding criminal record , according to the judicial process has nothing to do with the current crime . 
but when it comes to sentencing for punishment , of course , if the person 's never done anything bad before , according to the judicial system , then they 're going to lean towards a slightly more lenient side , 
and the jury 's supposed to be notified of criminal records when it comes to sentencing by jury . 
is it ? 
i did n't realize that . 
at least in california , they 're supposed to be . 
not during the trial , 
during the trial as to whether they 're guilty or not has nothing to do with their background . 
but when it comes to what kind of sentence you 're going to lay down , i think that they should . 
i do n't know that they always have because i never sat all the way through a jury trial . 
they get too boring . 
so , what you 're saying is this , if there is the second offense , then you execute them . 
if it 's a second offense , the punishment should certainly be more severe than a first offense , because obviously , the rehabilitation process did not work the first time . 
so you got to give them either more time in the system or a different process that will hopefully work better . 
when it comes down to things like alternative sentencing , i 'm all for that for small crimes , infractions and misdemeanors or parking tickets or traffic tickets that have gone to warrant , 
you give them the option of working off their time doing civil service sort of things . 
what about white collar crimes like theft of trade secrets . 
i think those ought to be punished a whole lot worse than they are . 
like what ? 
embezzlement . 
let 's talk about the wonderful abuses in the state of pennsylvania of personal property taxes whereby you can purchase something mail order 
and after the fact , the state of pennsylvania can find out about it and send you a bill for the sales tax appropriate to that item that you purchased as well as interest and penalties from the time that you bought it . 
what do you think ? 
is pennsylvania kind of out of line there ? 
actually , i do n't think they 're out of line . 
devil 's advocate possibly , 
but you are trying to avoid paying taxes 
and whether or not you agree with that law , you 're still circumventing it . 
you are legal in your circumvention of that law . 
what if you 're not doing it in order to circumvent the law though ? 
what if you do n't even realize that you 're subject to paying income tax on something that you purchase mail order ? 
i do n't think that 's a valid argument . 
i think that most people are quite aware they 're not paying that six percent sales tax . 
naturally some things you just ca n't find in your local k-mart or , bryn mawr stereo dealer . 
but then why not pay the sales tax . 
corporations have to , 
why should an individual just because the state ca n't really find out about it , be able to avoid paying sales tax ? 
it seems to me that , generally , at least in my own experience , when i purchase something mail order , it 's not to circumvent paying sales tax to the state of pennsylvania . 
it 's because i ca n't find the item that i want at a competitive price anywhere in my local area . 
so i go outside the area for that . 
and i think that it 's not my responsibility to police myself and pay pennsylvania what they believe they are owed even though the revenue stream went to another state . 
i do n't think that that 's my responsibility as a conscientious consumer . 
i 'll agree it 's not your responsibility 
is it also legal , for you to do that ? 
from what i understand from various net readings , the federal government is going to try to legislate a more aggressive enforcement of state tax schemes into place in the next few years . 
it is a lost revenue stream right now 
and states can use all the revenue they can get . 
with something like that , do your arguments still apply ? 
i think that if policy is established and if a mechanism is put into place to promote the collection of taxes in this fashion , then i do n't argue with it . 
because it 's not a burden on the consumer to remember that i bought this out of state . 
i need to xerox the receipt and make out a check for six percent and send it to pennsylvania . 
which is exactly what businesses do at the present . 
but the point is is that businesses do that . 
the business that you purchase the thing from is responsible for collecting the appropriate sales tax and forwarding it to the state in question . 
that 's a cost of doing business . 
the burden should n't be placed on the consumer . 
and i was actually talking about businesses purchasing something mail order and then having to pay sales tax on it . 
that 's my understanding of the way it works . 
usually , the person ordering does n't pay . 
but the accounting department will suck up all the bills at the end of the month and realize how much they have to pay . 
and there are some substantial , nasty penalties if businesses try to avoid that . 
do you mean businesses from the point of view of selling things to a consumer and then being responsible for the sales tax ? or purchasing . 
if i 'm a computer consulting firm and i see this great deal on forty-six mother boards from utah . i might buy the mother boards from utah but then still have to pay pennsylvania sales tax . 
i think that 's the way things work in pennsylvania . 
and i know they work that way here in d c . 
i 'm unfamiliar with that because i never see that end of the business . 
so , my only experience has been from the point of view of a consumer . 
but , if that 's the case , if the business is responsible for policing themselves , then i think some well defined mechanisms need to be in place so that the opportunity to forget that you owe sales tax for something can be avoided . 
that 's true . 
a big hole does exist right now in that consumers can just say i forgot that . 
there is no well defined mechanism at all 
and that it is a loss . is that the federal government will try to establish a mechanism just in order to gain the revenue that 's being lost . 
i do n't know if i agree with that . 
your turn . 
i do n't think they should abolish it . 
i think if they put it into force more often , they would n't have as many problems as they 've got . 
but not for petty theft ? 
for major things like premeditated murder . mass murders . that type of thing . 
i do n't think it should just be used loosely . 
it should be used as a deterrent do you think ? 
or should it be used to prevent further crime ? 
to prevent these people from ever getting out on the street . by some technicality . 
and they go down the line ten years 
and then on some little technicality they get out and on the streets again doing the same they did before . 
and that 's about the only thing . 
for theft and stuff like that or manslaughter , i do n't think they should do that . 
there 's this old jewish saying about an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth . 
i guess , if it was someone in my family , i 'd probably feel that way . 
i 've never had anybody in my immediate family murdered 
and so i really would n't know . 
but i feel like if i did , i probably would feel that way . 
one of the things i was thinking about is , from society 's point of view , if you put a value on each person , what you want to do is to maximize the end game value . 
so if you have someone that destroys that value then you want to take steps to minimize the loss . 
of course , you have to also put value on the criminal . 
so if you terminate him , that 's a loss of value . 
that 's true . 
if you do n't terminate him , the likelihood is expected value of loss of life is greater than one person . 
in other words , you 'd have to murder more than one other person in order to justify taking his life . 
besides him . 
another way you could do it is weight this value by the value to society of the people . which is pretty delicate thing to do . 
but one way of doing it is by income . 
so if this guy does n't make a great deal of money , which is often times the case , then he 's obviously not worth very much 
his life is n't worth very much then . 
and so the likelihood that maybe expected murders by him is , integrated over the income of the people that he murders is maybe a loss of eight hundred thousand dollars . 
but if integrated income over the expected remainder of his life is small , less than eight hundred thousand dollars , then you terminate him . 
i suppose you could say , that has something to do with potential for rehabilitation . 
potential . 
that 's the key right there . potential . 
are they rehabilitative or not . 
that 's all fine and well and , good philosophical . 
but if you 're involved yourself , personally 
i know i have a friend whose son was murdered on the night before his sixteenth birthday . 
and let me tell you , i knew them personally not intimately , but quite well 
and you 're talking about real trauma trauma that extends beyond the counting of bodies . 
i can imagine . 
of course , a parent losing a teenage child is about as bad as it could possibly get in terms of psychological impact . 
was he murdered ? 
did they find who killed him ? 
they found him 
and he is on trial for capital murder . 
so it has n't been a long time ago . 
just recently . 
actually he was convicted , 
and , of course , now you go through two or three hundred years of appeals process 
that appeals process it 's what just drags out and out and out . 
my brother-in-law here in texas , my sister 's , husband , his sister was murdered down here by a guy actually in houston 
one way or another we 're now recording . 
home repair . 
you were helping your parents . 
i still am really . 
they 're sort of remodeling a house out in downtown atlanta , in candler park . 
and we 've done lots to it . 
we 've taken out the glass and most of the windows and the sashes and replaced them . 
you 're remodeling ? 
how about you ? 
i live in an apartment now . 
two summers ago i went to massachusetts 
and i went with a friend of mine 
and we undertook a building house . 
and this was a lincoln log house where you have the wall partitions 
and it 's preconstructed you might say . 
and we , started from an empty lot with trees and stuff on it 
and we had to cut them down and clear the lot . 
we had to call in the excavators and have them dig the basement . pour the basement 
and went from the ground up . 
it was a fun time 
but i thought , summer time . 
all it ever did was rain and thunder storms . 
and one thing is that we were going to pour the basement foundation . 
and we 're in the process 
and it started pouring down rain . 
and i guess we had most of it done 
what happened was that a lot of water settled on the top 
and it really did n't give a very good finish 
it was sort of sandy and not a very good finish . 
but it was okay 
and it 's only the basement floor 
so it was okay . 
but it kept us pretty busy . 
there was me and my friend 
it was n't a commercial project or something . 
it was sort of just get my brother and maybe my cousin 's coming over today to help us do that kind of thing . so that the scheduling and everything was kind of hectic sometimes . 
and then materials coming in 
and so we 're hopping around pretty good . 
but overall we got it done 
and it 's a three bedroom , two bath house 
and it 's pretty neat . 
nice . 
nice . 
what was it for ? 
it was for my friend 's parents . 
they had some property there 
it 's sort of like a farm , you might say . 
and they live in this old house for something like thirty years or something . 
and his mom just wanted a new house , 
that has been her dream . 
and so , we did that . 
and she was really pleased with it . 
so it came 
that 's great . 
why is it that the weather in atlanta that gets very hot . 
where you live it gets very hot ? 
it does . 
and the windows what type of windows are you putting in ? 
because the windows are something that is conducive to temperature changes in the solar game ? 
what , are you putting in 
we just went into a building supply store and bought plate glass . 
my parents do not have a whole lot of money to put into it . 
the house is eighty years old 
and it 's had several owners and stuff 
and they have put plastic , plexiglas kind of stuff in some of the windows . 
so you have the sash windows in ? 
did it go up and down ? 
i see . 
and so we wanted to get all new stuff in there . 
there 's a problem with those . 
they usually most of the time do n't open very well . 
ours did n't . 
and the ones that would open would n't want to stay open . 
they wanted to slam shut . 
a lot of vibration 
and it causes the glass to crack 
and it 's a never ending problem . 
i have n't been in any really home repair things lately . 
kathy ? 
what do you usually do as far as budgeting ? 
we have a very detailed budget . because my husband is a finance major . 
and we have money that we take out each month for food and for gas and things like that . 
and then we put aside so much money each month for birthdays and for christmas and for other things . 
then we take our major purchases we want to make during that year 
and we budget them into what we call our needs and wants list . 
we have a vacation fund . 
we have a fund for the things we need . and then for the things that we want . 
and we 're continually putting into those each month how much we 're going to need 
and then we know the month that we 're going to have enough to get that particular item . 
so we very rarely buy anything on credit . 
everything we buy is paid for . 
my husband is a finance major also . 
and we kind of have the same plan . 
we have one credit card 
and every month we put the same amount in for retirement . 
and our new thing to our budget is we just had a baby . 
so we 're , budgeting each month an allowance for his education starting now . 
so that 's in our budget every month now . 
that 's the newest addition . 
we have a set amount 
we take one big vacation a year and then maybe three small vacations . 
so an , exact amount that we spend on that each year . 
we have found that we spend less money if we pull out the money . instead of just writing checks for things . 
if we actually pull it out and keep it in a safe here . 
i see . 
and we actually pull out the money each month that we want to put in for birthdays , that we want to put in for the vacation . that we put in for christmas . 
you have a separate account for that then ? 
a lot of that i do n't know how safe it is . 
i guess we keep it all in a safe here at the house . 
i see . 
and so it 's actually pulled out . 
i see . 
we have a savings account for the kids ' education . 
that money goes into there . 
we have three children . 
so they each have their own account . 
i see . 
that money is put into each month . 
does your husband deal in stocks and bonds and mutual funds and all that kind of stuff ? 
does he invest in that and for long-term ? 
he does somewhat . 
he does somewhat . 
we have an investment plan . 
i guess he does . 
this is the first year we 've done it this way . 
and we are really saving a lot of money . 
what goes into that particular thing ? 
it 's vacations , christmas . 
christmas , birthdays car maintenance , dental , medical , 
we just averaged out how much last year we used per month on medical and how much we used on dental 
we have it . 
and when we see something on sale instead of just looking in our checking account and saying we 've got enough and getting it , and then when something comes up kind of scrimping to pay for a medical bill . everything 's taken care of . 
and we 're finding that we even have more money than we thought . 
do you run the family budget as far as groceries and that sort of thing ? 
i do . 
all the money . 
and what 's that ? 
all the money is turned over to me . 
do you have a set amount that you spend each month 
or how do you work that ? 
i have a set amount . 
it 's very generous 
and i usually have extra . 
and so then that can go either back into our checking account 
or i can just carry it over . 
there are certain months of the year that you 'll spend more on food than other months . and certain times when that will be left over . 
but that 's completely up to me how i do that . 
i stay home . 
i do too . 
i stay home also . 
and so it 's kind of my money 
and i also get my own money to do what i want to . go to lunches and do that kind of thing . 
we have a clothing envelope for each of the kids and for myself and my husband that we put how much we figure we need each month on clothing . 
it really works out great . 
we 're finding that we have a lot more money to spend on things like that . 
as far as big things like something comes up and you have to buy a t v or a big item for the house . 
we have a household budget . 
we 're going to need to buy a bed for my daughter that 's coming out of her crib this year . 
and also , we need a new bed . 
and so we 've got both of those budgeted 
and we put a certain amount in each month 
and we know which month we 'll . 
recently graduated from high school . meaning three or four years ago . 
i 'm a senior in , college now . 
and i ca n't really talk too much about the problems with public education in detail because the school system i went to was really superb even though it was a public school system . 
i 'm a junior in college now . 
and i go to tech , georgia tech ? 
i got a friend who goes there , by the way . 
i want to talk to you about that afterward , 
the high school i went to was a good one also . 
and i guess you could say one of the problems with the public education system is the disparity between different schools . 
because the one i went to was a lot nicer than a lot of the inner city schools and the things around atlanta . 
it 's more or less a suburban school system ? 
that was true for mine too . 
although i 'm sure to some extent , that money is part of the problem in the disparity , 
but i honestly do n't think that 's the biggest part of it . 
i know that in my town most of the parents , they valued education . 
and so the students were to some extent , motivated to learn . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
that 's true . 
i think maybe it 's started changing in the past few years because they have these sort of mandatory , tests you have to take before you get a diploma . 
but , certainly before that , there were people that would graduate from high school and could barely read . 
and that 's just sort of inexcusable 
i just ca n't even picture how that could happen except maybe to someone who 's really badly learning disabled or something . 
but these people obviously were n't . 
when i went to elementary school it was n't in a great area 
but i started learning to read when i was in kindergarten . 
so i guess i ca n't say what it would be like to grow up in a really oppressed region . 
i guess the whole environment and attitude towards school and learning is different for the people . 
and i think that 's almost a bigger factor , than anything else probably . 
so , i guess the thing to do is to try to get some kind of motivation to learn 
i think it 'd be interesting to spend a couple of days just looking around an inner city school . sort of maybe from elementary through high school just sort of to get a feel for what it 's like . 
i think that 'd be an interesting experience . 
but i have n't done that . 
i ca n't say that i have either . 
but i do think that public education in general can work . 
and i think it 's a good thing . 
i 've heard statistics and things that compare a public education to a private education within the same income groups . 
if you compare the people that could have sent their kids to private schools and the people that , did send their kids to private schools . 
i think they compare fairly well . 
i honestly do n't really think i could have done much better than i did in the school system i was in . 
once i got into high school , they had a lot of accelerated programs and all kinds of stuff like that . 
that makes a big difference 
once you start junior high , starting in eighth grade all the way through high school , there were four levels . 
i guess in junior high , it was still three . 
actually i think that works pretty well . 
here in logan , utah , we 've got a nice little valley here 
and it 's crystal clear all the time except for during the winter when the inversion sets in 
and then we get a little bit of pollution in the valley . 
here in seattle the air 's getting more and more polluted . 
we 're in kind of a basin . 
and seattle is on puget sound which is a inland waterway between two mountains . 
and there 's been a lot of population growth around here . 
and it 's getting worse . 
i think most of it is from cars . 
here in utah up along the wasatch along the western side of these rocky mountains here , where a lot of the big cities are salt lake and ogden and provo and logan 's up in the valley a little bit further north , we get a lot of pollution 
and it 's like seventy percent of it is from cars . 
and it always really hits hard during the winter when we get the inversion . and when we get cold air down in the valleys and warm air up above 
and it just sits and sits and sits 
and we 're starting to hit pollution levels now on the wasatch front which match that of l a a few years ago . 
it 's almost sad . 
because when i grew up here , it was just always the crisp air up in the mountain valleys 
and now it 's not in the mountain valleys . 
i live in the , university district 
and it 's supposed to have about the worst air pollution . 
i think probably due to a lot of students going back and forth to school . 
and then we 're right next to interstate five also . 
they 've already passed laws where you have to get your cars checked for pollution if you 're in certain counties , 
emissions . 
have they started doing that yet ? 
not in logan up here cause we 're doing a lot better . 
population is a lot lighter up here . 
we have that here 
and they 're expanding it to more counties here . as the population spreads out 
and i think they 're also going to be making it mandatory for more cars . 
there was something in the law about if your car was over a certain age , like over twenty years old , you did n't have to get it done anymore . 
and i think they 're eliminating that loophole . 
they 're eliminating that out here . 
they 're also talking very seriously about the thing called a dirt gun . where they 're looking at the emissions from the car using basically a spectrometer and looking at basically how much of what is coming out of the exhaust . 
kind of like a radar gun . 
you mean they could do that remotely ? 
what they do , they do several different types of things . 
sometimes they put a source light 
and they look at the source light 
and then as the car goes by , you can see the exhaust pipe and the source light behind it 
and you can look at the emissions actually . 
where does the source light go ? 
across the street . 
they 'll set up a trap or something like that in some sense . 
i see . 
and a poorly tuned car can emit something , 
it 's an incredible amount . 
it was four hundred times as much of certain pollutants then a properly tuned car . 
and the idea being that if you tuned up this ten percent of the cars that were producing fifty percent of the pollution then it 'd be one way to cut the pollution in half . 
that 's neat . 
everybody is talking about using more mass transient here 
but it 's tough . 
i 've looked into riding the bus to work 
and i can drive to work , and get there in twenty to twenty-five minutes over a very congested corridor . which goes over lake washington on one of the floating bridges . 
but if i take the bus , it requires several transfers 
and it takes over an hour . 
so it 's not hard to see why i keep driving . 
we 're supposed to talk about recycling . 
basically , what your personal opinion is on it . 
this is really for a speech research project they 're doing 
so i do n't know . 
florida is pretty good about recycling is n't it ? 
they just kicked it off down here in sarasota county . 
they did ? 
they had been doing it , 
they started first in sarasota city . which makes up a pretty small portion of the county actually . 
not quite , 
it 's county wide program now . 
and what they 've done is they 've broken everything down into garbage . yard trash . plastic , cans and glass . and then paper . 
which , in the paper , it 's just newspaper and corrugated cardboard . is the only thing you 're supposed to put in there . 
no slicks . 
that 's good . 
let me ask you this . 
do they require you to presort it ? 
that 's something in minneapolis they 're really strict on . 
in terms of you got to put everything in its own little bag and really presort it really tightly . 
but when i lived in orlando , it 's like you could put almost anything in there 
and they 'd just sort it out for you . 
it was really pretty good if you 're lazy like i am , 
i talked to this girl 
she 's an acquaintance of mine 
what is the name of that company . 
it 's not amway 
but it 's the other big vitamin company ? 
shaklee . 
and she 's just shaklee crazy because it 's her business and everything . 
we were talking one day 
and she asked me a couple of questions . 
what she said . 
that 's what recycling at home sorting does . 
it 's a little extra work . 
you put your garbage in a garbage bag 
and you set it out by the curb . 
if you have yard trash , you put your yard trash in some kind of container . 
or you can have bundles up to a certain weight , and certain dimensions , tie them up and put them by the curb . 
you got to tie them up and everything . 
the plastic , cans and glass , they give you this little tub 
and it 's about a foot and a half deep 
and it 's about one by one and a half foot wide and long . 
this is a little container . 
and then they have another one the same size . 
that one 's red . 
then they have a blue one the same size for the paper goods . 
and , so you would have to rinse out your pop cans . 
otherwise you got bees and ants 
and if you 've got food containers or anything like that , it 's a big problem . 
it is a big hassle . 
that 's true . 
up here , they give you one of those containers 
and you put everything in it . 
it 's like if you 're a partying kind of guy and you drink a couple of twelve packs , maybe , over the weekend it 's going to be hard pressed to put all your recyclables in that one place . 
this is true . 
so it 's kind of a pain in the butt . 
this is true . 
but i do n't know . 
you have those garbage people that , make twenty , thirty bucks an hour , 
have them do a little bit of the sorting and maybe come up with a better system . 
make it a little more convenient . 
they 've got these large garbage cans that you can rent from the waste management company here . if you want to have a nice garbage can . 
and it 's on wheels 
and it 's big . 
you can actually rent those ? 
that 's interesting . 
up here the city provides them . 
i think in the city they do 
but out here in the county you have to rent them . 
and they just add it on to your water bill or something . 
so where exactly are you in terms of , sarasota ? 
are you north of sarasota or , east , 
east of sarasota . 
and sarasota is on the west coast ? 
south of tampa ? 
about an hour south of tampa . 
. i listen to this talk radio station down here 
i do n't 
but those guys , they just kind of get into , stewing up trouble with the callers and things like that . 
occasionally . 
but they get into some really good conversations sometimes . 
and some of it , sometimes it 's serious 
and they have some good feedback and all that stuff 
and this kind of fits into the aid program , 
the welfare program that 's going on right now . 
your turn . 
i start . 
we keep a budget to an extent . 
and we were really forced into keeping a budget because i 'm paid once a month which sort of forces some restrictions 
and you need to make sure all your bills are paid . 
about yourself ? 
i have to say i really do n't have a budget . 
both my wife and i grew up in families of rather modest means 
and our family income , at this point , is comfortable . upper middle class i guess you might say . 
and we 're both so frugal that we really do n't need a budget . 
we just sort of invest the money and go on vacations and always never seem to have any money problems which i guess is a comfortable thing . 
i guess that really is sort of keeping a budget , . 
you stay within your means . 
we stay within our means 
but we do n't do it by conscious effort . 
it just sort of happens automatically . 
although we just moved to california and the cost of living here in california is rather pathological . 
housing prices are from four to ten times more expensive than they were where i came from in dallas . 
you moved from dallas to san francisco . 
so that presents a real shock . 
that is a hugh difference . 
actually our standard of living has gone down somewhat since we 've moved to california 
but you have good sour dough 
and it 's a beautiful place to live . 
it 's god 's country . 
and one way you know that is that only god can afford it . 
so budget is not a problem for us . 
at least it has n't been . 
it may be at this point . 
but up until this point it really has n't been . 
when i was in undergraduate school a long , long time ago , i noted that the starting average monthly salary for engineers in my discipline , was six hundred ten dollars a month or something like that . 
and i noted at that point that if that 's what my salary was that i drew then i would be making almost twice as much as my father made during his best year ever . 
so i stopped worrying about money . 
never have worried about money since then . 
that 's a system too . 
sometimes it 's a bit of a problem because i guess i do n't really manage my money the way i should . 
but i suppose i 've lost money on not taking good advantage of , investments 
then again you said you are able to take trips . 
and you do , obviously , have enough to live on 
so i guess you 're indirectly budgeting . just bye-bye the fact that you said you 're both very frugal in spending the money . 
so that 's a form of budgeting . 
it 's kind of a strange topic for two people who do n't really have a budget to talk about budgeting and how they manage their money . 
i guess we 're both lucky in that regard then . 
how big is your family ? 
we have one on the way . 
i see . 
and then , we 're having one on the way in , september . 
i think it 's just going to be one . 
how about yourself ? 
i have two kids . 
one nine and one thirteen 
and they are beginning to be a budget problem but have not been really up to this point . 
do they budget at all ? 
do you have them on an allowance ? 
i give them an allowance 
i basically give my son ten dollars a week 
and i put half of it in the bank 
and i give him the other half in cold cash . 
and he has a teller card so he can do what he wishes with the money that i put in the bank . 
but , at least , it is n't burning a hole in his pocket . 
if he wants to use it , he has to go get it 
actually 
i do n't think i 'm in the majority in texas 
you do n't believe in it ? 
i would n't say that . 
i think i would have said that a few years ago . 
when i was younger i thought it was a sign of a civilized society if you did n't have capital punishment 
but , maybe slowly changing my opinion . 
i 'm not thoroughly opposed to it . 
i still think it 's sort of true that a more civilized society would n't have to use capital punishment 
but i 'm beginning to believe this is less civilized society than i thought . 
you sound a lot like a friend of mine . a girl i hang out with . 
she has very black and white opinions . 
there 's no gray in her opinions . 
she probably would agree more with you 
but i do n't know . 
i think i would rather a person go ahead and be put down than give them the opportunity to get out and do it again . 
i 've never had a punishment or a crime like a murder touch my immediate family 
but i still feel very strongly that capital punishment is a good way to punish , especially criminals who seem to have absolutely no remorse for what they 've done . 
and we see that more and more . 
in our state right now , there 's a fourteen year old boy who raped and then killed a seven year old girl 
that 's fourteen years old . 
what 's he going to be doing when he turns into an adult . 
i certainly do n't advocate turning people like that loose . 
i 'm not sure executing them does anymore than keeping them in jail , 
it does n't 
but , it costs less . 
that 's a factor . 
and 
to me it is . 
i work 
and i pay my taxes 
and i lived out in texas for a little while 
and that 's a pretty heavy state compared to georgia . 
you guys are a lot more for to each his own even than we are in georgia . 
but even in georgia that 's the attitude for the most part . 
if i work and pay my dues you work and pay your dues 
and we 'd get along just fine . 
but when i 've got to work to pay my dues and your dues then i do n't like you very much anymore . 
the cost is something 
but i think it 's relatively unimportant compared to what 's the most effective way of , dealing with crime 
i do n't know , 
the european countries certainly none of them have capital punishment 
and they do n't have a crime problem either . 
they do n't execute anybody in britain or france 
and i do n't believe they do in germany or italy either 
and they do n't have the crime problems we do . 
i do n't really think that there is too much of a relationship between the two . 
i guess what worries me about capital punishment is when i see people enthusiastic about it and sort of bloodthirsty . i think it brings out the worst in the people who do the punishing 
and that bothers me . 
you might be right . 
i 'd hate to be the person to pull the switch , 
i would never in a million years want that job 
but i do believe it 's necessary 
on the one hand i guess i admire the person who has the guts to do it because i could n't stand behind a gun and shoot somebody for nothing 
and i could n't pull the switch 
the other thing that bothers me is when it becomes a political issue because i do n't really think it 's a very important aspect of fighting crime or law and order or anything else . 
i think it just becomes a symbolic i 'm tougher than you are type of emotional issue for politicians 
i would like for it to be settled once for all and get in the background while the more important issues get discussed , 
like i said , some years ago , i think i would have said there 's no place for capital punishment in the , civilized western country . 
i 'm not so sure of that . 
i would n't vote against somebody just because it was for capital punishment and nor the other way around . 
what 's making you become more convinced that it might be a good way of punishing ? 
i 'm beginning to believe that some people are simply not rehabilitatable and that costs and other factors justify executing people . 
maybe it 's more a symbolic gesture than anything else 
and i 've also never been a victim although i have two friends whose wives were murdered 
and i can imagine that for some people it would be the only form of justice in that case . 
actually in this modern day and age , it seems like we have more and more leisure time because we have so many appliances and whatnot . 
we do n't even have to cook dinner anymore . 
but i 've heard that a lot of families really do n't spend a great deal of time together . 
the kids maybe on the average get something like thirty seconds of quality time with the parents . 
that 's what i 've heard too . 
it seems bizarre to me . 
i do n't quite understand it , although i think probably the worst thing that 's happening in , at least the modern world today , is television . 
not so much because it 's bad per se , although there is some pretty crappy programming 
and there 's also some poorer lifestyles illustrated but simply because it dominates so much discussionary time . 
it 's so darned easy to turn the thing on . 
i know it . 
i tell myself sometimes , just sit down after work , 
so i refuse to have one in the house . 
good for you . 
good for you . 
i talk to a lot of people about that 
and i 've thought about it myself 
and i though about it a lot 
but i still have n't done it yet . 
that 's good . 
i 'll tell you . 
television sure makes child rearing easy on you . 
the kids can be a real pest , 
and turning the t v on is almost like magic , 
it 's like sticking an electrode into their pleasure center 
and you do n't have to worry about them . 
that 's true 
i 've noticed that . 
but i do n't think it 's too good . 
i do n't think so either . 
so i do n't know , 
i do n't have a great deal of time to spend with the kids , 
but i take advantage of dinner time . 
we always eat together 
and whenever you 're with your kids , you want to interact with them rather than just ignore them . 
do you keep your kids active in sports or anything 
i guess our big outlet is music . 
our thirteen year old son plays violin 
and our , nine year old daughter plays cello 
and when our son started playing violin , i took up violin 
and when our daughter started playing cello , i took up cello . 
so there 's plenty of interactive time in practicing . although neither kid likes to practice . 
i guess that 's not a big surprise . 
not for kids . 
i try and read to them 
and i take them to the park and stuff 
and . 
reading is so good . 
i took great pleasure in reading to my kids when they were little 
and i still try to read to them , although our son is not liking that anymore . 
they get to that stage . 
there 's this doctor seuss sleep book . 
have you ever seen that yet ? 
sleep book , 
it 's called a sleep book 
and you ought to get it . 
i tell you i read that book to my kids so many times i almost have the thing memorized . 
we 've got quite a few of doctor seuss ' books . 
i think his sleep book is my favorite . 
i like to do it 
and they enjoy reading . 
i never read a lot growing up 
and i never read until a few years ago 
i just started picking up books 
and so i 've found that it 's really important to me to get to read . 
, i like to get away in a book ? 
so how much time do you think you spend with your kids on the average per each day ? 
i probably spend an hour or two . 
that 's great . 
my wife works at night , 
so she does tupperware , 
so she 's gone a lot at nights 
and so i spend a lot of time with them . 
i see . 
how old are your kids again ? 
they 're two and one . 
two and one . 
so you have your hands full with them , 
that 's for sure . 
so what things do you consider an invasion of privacy ? 
i do n't know . 
what do you think ? 
i do n't know . 
i had a little bit more time to think about it . 
i do n't know , 
i started to think about all the big data bases they have with all the information about you on them like the credit reports and all those demographics studies that they do that , have , who knows , how much stuff about all the purchases that you 've made and everything kept tract somewhere 
and i do n't know , 
i do n't know what they actually have in there 
but i know they sell those , 
what about required drug testing as a condition of employment ? 
that was the other one i was thinking of . 
i know drugs are illegal . 
i have worked at texas instruments . 
and they instituted a drug testing policy where they randomly would test employees 
and actually , to tell you the truth , i really did not think much about it . 
i had n't , 
it really did n't relate to me . 
but there were some things that people brought up like what happens if they get a false positive what recourse do you have . 
and , also this is against the law for the government to do this kind of big brother activity 
and yet a lot of these large corporations such as texas instruments , although they do n't admit to it , actually a drug testing policy comes about as a result of government pressure . 
so what that means is , to me , that really it 's the government that 's requiring this , 
so , in that sense , at least , philosophically , it 's really borderline legal . 
i think that , a person 's competence should be more determined by their actions and their behavior 
and if they 're on some kind of controlled substance then it kinds of takes away from the job of the supervisor or manager type person who is able to evaluate them . 
i think they should be evaluated that way rather than with a chemical , 
what about this aids epidemic ? where you find that certain people actually are criminal in their disregard for others . 
these people that are carriers and that do n't reveal it ? 
it destroys their libido . 
that would be kind of an extreme . 
so what about that as an invasion of privacy ? 
so 
it gets to balancing personal freedom against the general welfare of society . 
i guess that 's been the big role of government generally . 
it 's supposed to have been . 
that 's kind of a difficult one to go into . 
i mean that particular case . 
it , 
they could require obligatory aids testing for everyone because there 's a huge part of the population , 
a growing part . 
the aids population that have it , that do n't know they do are spreading it . 
but , again , to require such a test and then to make it is to subject them to discriminatory practices and other things . 
i do n't know , 
i do n't know how exactly i feel about that . 
maybe chop their weenies off . 
go ahead . 
i think public service is a worthy thing 
and as a matter of fact there are a lot of programs such as peace corps that promote that . 
probably the most popular one but one that is not typically recognized as such is the boy scouts . 
i know that because my son is a scout now and is thinking about his eagle 
and in order to get eagle , you have to have merit badges in citizenship in the community citizenship in the nation , citizenship in the world 
and you have to do a public service project . in which leadership is the key element . 
i think the question is posed somewhat strangely because it 's talking about a requirement for public service 
and , of course , the peace corps , the boy scouts is a voluntary activity . 
i think that might be referring to something , kind of alternative to the draft . 
either you have military service or some sort of alternative , nonmilitary service for a few years . 
of course military service falls under the category of a public service . 
and , so one of the things that would fulfill at least the nominal qualifications set forth in the charge is military service or draft . 
but i agree with you , 
that probably is not what was comprehended . 
there are other things such as civil service which many people are lifelong employees of 
but i suspect that was not what they had in mind either . 
more of a voluntary kind of thing 
for years there has been an idea batted around of having some sort of alternative public service for young people to go into after high school . 
kind of in lieu of the draft for people who are conscientious objectors or do n't otherwise want to be in the military . 
say , you can go into the military 
or you can do this other thing for one or two years to kind of serve the community and learn about things . 
and it 's interesting because i 'm not a particular fan of the military 
but i have seen a lot of young guys go in that do n't have really a clue as to what they want to do with their lives and are n't terribly disciplined even just personal discipline about what they want to do 
and they come out 
and now they have at least some marginally marketable skills and more discipline . 
and in some cases they have a greater self-esteem because they can see that if i do something or submit my own will to the will of the sargent or whatever , at least for a short period of time , i can accomplish a lot 
and it 's a good lesson for a lot of young men to learn . that they do n't need to be cowboys . 
they do n't need to be out there constantly flaunting their ego to get things accomplished . 
and for some young men , that 's good . 
for me , it would have been lousy idea , because i did have the personal discipline . 
why ? 
and i went to college for four years and got out , 
why is that ? 
but , for some people that 's good . 
i do n't like the fact that it 's the military 
and the whole point of the military is to kill people essentially . as an instrument of u s policy . 
it 's to defend the nation against external evils . 
that 's one view . 
and that 's another debate . 
it depends on whether we figure that we have a defense oriented military or an aggression oriented military . 
and it seems pretty aggressive oriented , 
you look at the last military action which was in the persian gulf and was n't anywhere near the united states 
and it was definitely a projection of u s power on the other side of the globe , 
so , at any rate , this is getting off the topic 
how do you feel about the crime in your city ? 
minneapolis is n't too bad . 
i know that there 's been some increases in crime lately in terms of murders . 
that 's kind of gone up in scale and some other things . 
i personally had a little experience the other day . 
somebody broke my passenger window and stole a uniform out of my truck . 
but , actually when you look at minneapolis as compared to where i used to live , it 's really quite a bit better . because i came from florida 
and in orlando , crime is getting to be a bigger problem than ever , 
what part of california are you from ? 
san jose , california . 
i have a good friend there . 
here the real problems are the gangs . 
a lot of murders , 
we 've only been here a couple of years . 
before that we lived in colorado 
but in comparison to colorado , it 's real noticeable . 
i wo n't go to the grocery store at night . 
you know . 
and it 's that kind of thing 
we have a neighborhood watch program in the development that we live in , which i think is a great way to reduce home theft , burglary , and things of that sort . 
do you have that where you live 
i 'm an intern 
and then i go back down in may . 
but in orlando , before i moved up , we had a real problem with it . 
we 've been broken into in my apartment about four times in two and a half weeks . 
and one of the things that i helped organize was a neighborhood watch type situation down there . 
it 's one of those things where the new thing is that they operate in the daylight because everybody went to work , 
and then the houses were left unguarded , 
but 
i think given that people are pretty conscientious about it , that 's a good way to work it , with a neighborhood watch . 
also i 've heard that the newest thing is a lot of people are specializing in robbing people during the time they 're home . like on the weekends . 
is that right ? 
i think it 's like fifty percent of most people 's free time is spent doing yard work outdoors . 
so they wait while you 're outdoors . 
they know the house is unlocked 
and then they just slip in . 
slip in , slip out . 
that 's amazing . 
they know exactly what they 're going for . 
so , i 've heard that 's really on the rise as far as a new type of crime . 
it almost seems like they 're getting quite a bit smarter . 
unfortunately . 
unfortunately it 's starting to really look at people 's habits and where they are at particular points of the day . 
one of the guys i work with really laughs when he looks at minneapolis because he 's from detroit 
and the crime level there , of course , is quite a bit , more pronounced , 
but . 
i guess , 
i think we 've got a neighborhood watch program here in minneapolis , 
i 'm not real sure . 
it helps to know your neighbors . 
you 're supposed to make lists of cars . 
i know a lot of my neighbors right around my development . 
if i see a car that 's unfamiliar , we have a list 
is that what you did in your program ? where you have a list of license plates ? 
pretty much . 
i was basically , involved in that , in the organization of it . 
and then i left right in the middle of it . 
i 'm not sure where we went from there , 
that whole thing of being alert and kind of noticing your surroundings , noticing people who look suspicious activities like that , 
you hate to be paranoid 
but there are really only so many things you can do . 
you can have the house alarm , uh neighborhood watch program as a woman not go out at night 
you can do that which is what i choose to do . 
one of the frustrating things about that is that you really are limited 
even if you know that the threat is there it 's against the law to set traps , 
it 's against the law to do a lot of things . 
they did in miami that time . 
if you kill someone in your home , as long as they are in your home , it 's considered self-defense though . 
that 's not always true . 
it is n't ? 
there was a case about two years ago where a guy knew he was going to get robbed 
and essentially what he had done is set a electrocution trap for the burglar in his own home . 
the guy came in while he was home 
and , sure enough , he fell into the trap and was severely burned . 
he did n't die , 
but he was severely burned 
and he took the guy to court and won a settlement . 
so that makes you think . 
it 's like your hands are very much tied . 
i should say something . 
this is totally accidental that i have to talk about this topic . 
but , i 'm the least informed person in the whole united states . 
this has not been determined yet 
but i 've never read a newspaper in my entire life 
and i never watch t v news nor listen to the news on the radio unless i 'm just happening to be listening to music and they slip it on in the car radio before i can turn it off . 
any particular reason ? . 
i 've explored that with lots of people . 
they 've tried to lock me up and things like that . 
but i 'm basically not interested 
what am i trying to say . , 
i do learn about things . largely from friends 
and i occasionally will read something like the new york review of books . 
someone will write a book about something 
and then i 'll learn all about this thing that was in the news two years earlier . 
and anything i participated in or know about when i read about it in the paper is always covered from such a funny and superficial perspective that i do n't have much confidence in it . 
but i do n't think it 's just that i 'm lazy . 
i really do n't , 
and i guess you could explain it two ways . 
and the cynical view is , these things are n't doing a very good job at all . 
and the view that i would rather take is that there 's a different amount of information you need when you 're particularly interested in a topic or particularly interested in buying something as a hobbyist versus when you want to go out and buy a blender because you need to mix things . 
and i think the same thing is true with news . 
if you want to just have an idea as to what 's going on , most papers , and especially the better papers , the times , the wall street journal , the washington post give you a reasonable idea . 
if you were deeply involved in it , then you immediately realize that what they print is stuff that you probably knew already and the stuff that you want they 're not printing because the average person does n't need or want to know that much . 
i totally concede that intelligent people read these things and intelligent people write them . 
i 'm not being elitist in that sense , i hope . , 
there 's a reasonable question as to whether it 's worth the amount of time it takes to keep up on things . 
and most people think it is 
and i can , accept that some people think it 's not and can find better ways to use it . 
by the way when you say most people think it is , i think it 's like ninety-nine point ninety-nine think it is , percent . 
i do n't think it 's that high . 
you do n't ? 
i know a lot of people who may watch the t v news in the evening but do n't spend the time to actually read a newspaper . 
and i think they 're saying if something 's really important , i 'll at least find out that it happened . 
and that is a reasonable start 
and for awhile i did n't read a newspaper when i came out here because i did n't find one that i liked . 
and if something important happened , it was covered on t v 
and i could then go and pick up newspapers if it were important enough to read about . 
something that you cared about happened , you 'd find out from friends or other channels . 
the thomas and anita hill business . 
that 's the closest thing . 
i deeply cared about that . 
and i sort of had planned to have dinner with a friend of mine 
and when i arrived at her house , she was engrossed in that . 
we ended up watching it for a couple of hours . zooming out and grabbing something to eat and then zooming back and watching it some more . 
and i thought that was terrific because she actually helped me understand what was going on . 
but even then , i did n't end up doing it on my own . , 
i stayed as far away from those as i could . 
i decided i did n't want to waste the time 
i had five years ago now , wasted that kind of time with oliver north hearings . and afterwards , decided that what i had gotten out of it just was n't worth the time i put in . and that these things are just very slow in seeing information come out . 
probably the best things to do is tie them with a rope and throw them in the water 
if they sink they 're innocent . 
i see . 
a good southern solution . 
how do you feel ? 
that 's , of course , being facetious 
you 'd have to say that . 
i do n't know . 
the things they asked to talk about were whether the judge should be the one that does the sentencing . 
and seems to me that i think that 's the way it 's done now . 
at least , my understanding of the law which is n't very good . 
it seems to me that the judge does it 
and i think that 's probably all right in that they maybe know what the norm is for a particular thing . 
and , i guess , also what the system will absorb . 
probably more tuned in to that . 
possibly though on capital cases like maybe the death penalty 
he could have a personal prejudice . 
judges are people like everybody else even though they 're supposed to be impartial 
that 's right . 
and i think that may be an exception as well . 
does n't the jury decide on the death penalty rather than the judge ? 
i think that 's the way it is . 
they decide whether or not the accused or whatever would get the death penalty . 
do they have a death penalty in california ? . 
in fact , they 're going to execute somebody at the end of this month . 
and there 's a big uproar going on right now . 
the governor has been trying to decide whether he 's going to commute it or not . 
it 's someone who had killed two teenage boys here in san diego as a matter of fact . 
something like that , i 've got no problem with it . 
i guess the way i think about it it should n't necessarily be thought of as revenge . 
put it to sleep . 
just get it out , 
it 's not able to fit in . 
something inexpensive . 
if somebody gets the death penalty , they 're judged guilty , 
they got the death penalty , 
they should have one year and one appeal . cover all their bases with one appeal 
and if not do n't let them sit up there on death row for fifteen years . 
i think this particular case has been like ten or fifteen years . 
but i guess there have been several cases where people have been executed by mistake 
and you 'd hate to be one of those . 
i 'm sure . 
maybe not . 
i do n't know . 
at least in capital cases i 'd think they 'd have to be unanimous . 
i believe it is in capital . 
i think in lesser cases it 's ten out of twelve or five out of six , whatever . how ever many is sitting on a jury . 
i believe that 's the way it is . 
but i 'm pretty sure you 're correct on capital cases . 
the paper here tonight had a thing about the noriega trial . and that there 's one juror that is , different than the other eleven . 
and they 've only deliberated four hours or , something 
and they say they 're hopelessly deadlocked . 
and the judge told them , they were n't hopelessly deadlocked yet . 
i 'm telling you , go one way or the other . 
that 's probably an expensive trial . 
six months so far they said . 
probably . 
probably . 
i 'm not sure there 's a number . 
it 's probably thirty , forty thousand dollars a day worth of all the free for all . 
maybe they could go with a nine hundred number and have people dial in and give their vote . 
that 's been so long i 've practically forgot who noriega was . 
that has been going on . 
my cousin is a f b i agent down in miami . 
so she follows that stuff pretty closely . 
that 's interesting . 
she 's not involved in that case . 
but she does , 
have you ever served on a jury ? 
i have n't . 
i never have . 
my wife has 
but i have n't . 
i got called 
but i never got selected for a jury , 
i sat for ten days in a court room while they went through the selection process , 
and they had some guy that was defending himself . 
go ahead . 
have you every been tested for a new job or anything ? 
i have n't . 
but , in my job , i 'm a nurse , 
this is the rules that they can do this anytime . 
i do n't know of anyone who ever has been picked out and been tested . 
they can if they choose to . 
have you had any experience with it at all ? 
not really 
but i 've always worked on a university level 
but a lot of my friends had to be tested before they got summer jobs and stuff . 
so what do you think about that ? 
i do n't think they 're very accurate 
because i know their lifestyles changed prior to the drug test 
and i know they changed afterwards . 
i know of that too . 
and i also know that things like antihistamines , sudafeds , things like that , can really throw it off . 
and you can not get a job because of it 
and they may not tell you the reason why . 
i had a friend , 
it did n't cause her any problems with her job 
but it came back that she tested positive for using a hallucinogen . 
but what it was , was she had been , in the jungle 
and it was some malaria medication 
and she tested positive for that . 
and so it really is a dangerous thing that way 
because i know of somebody that tested for an airline and did n't get the job 
and they were n't told why . 
but a lot of people say the reason why , after you take a physical , will be because of the drug testing 
or they would tell you . 
or this person never use any drugs . 
i thought you got called back if you tested positive , for more tests . 
you should . 
because you should be given another chance or at least be able to justify it or something . 
i have real mixed feelings about it . 
i do n't know . 
do you know how wrong they are ? 
is there a margin of error ? 
the accuracy ? 
i do n't know . 
i do n't know . 
but , i know there are a lot of things that can influence them 
and i think that a person deserves a second chance with it or something because most things will stay in your system for a long time . 
i interviewed for a job recently 
and i was taking entex . 
and my doctor gave me a prescription for it . 
and he said this way if it were to make the drug test positive , you have proof that your doctor ordered this for you . 
and it did n't come up that i needed to do it 
but this could happen to anybody 
and if they would just say this person 's drug test is positive we wo n't hire them then you could lose out on a job when really you did n't do anything . 
so i do n't know . 
and i 'm not so sure they are that needed . 
i 'm not sure either . 
the only way i can see it is that if they really suspect a person of using it , then they have the right to go ahead and prove it 
because they say they can spot check . 
if you 're using it while at a job , i can see a problem . 
but the occasional person , then it 's almost an infringement of your privacy . 
it sort of is . 
and this is it , 
i 'm not real sure how i feel about it because i can see it from two ways . 
as a health professional , i would n't want somebody to take care of me that was using drugs . 
so as a patient , i feel we probably should be protected . 
but , on the other hand , there 's a lot of things i should be protected from that they do n't test my patients for too . 
so i guess you have to have trust some place along the way . 
you ca n't go around testing everybody for everything . 
so , i do n't know . 
and i think it could be used to hassle somebody . 
if someone was out to get you , i think that a company or a boss could use this . 
they could keep on doing this to you or something , i guess . 
i can see where it could become a problem . 
and it seems like now they have tests 
i guess they can test your hair 
and they can find out if you use drugs up to several years ago . 
but maybe you should n't be held responsible for something you did several years ago . 
i know . 
that 's the other thing . 
a lot of people as kids or young people get into some things that they get out of later on 
and i do n't think they should really have to pay for that forever . 
there 's a lot of things you do as a kid that you would n't do as an adult 
but you ca n't say it was wrong at the time . 
i think that 's true . 
so that probably would n't be too good either . 
our discussion 's about the care of the elderly ? 
that 's right , 
that 's right . 
what do you think is important ? 
i do n't know how old you are , 
but if you had , parents or grandparents , whatever it is who were ready , who you thought might benefit from a nursing home , what do you think you would look for ? 
my dad 's almost ninety 
and he lives by himself 
and he 's in good shape . 
but some friends of mine have gone through this . 
i think i 'd look for a home where they got a lot of attention and where they did some things to try to keep them mentally alive . and where there were caring and compassionate people operating it . 
do you have any experience with this yourself ? 
my wife 's grandmother is in a nursing home in minnesota 
and we go there once a year . 
we tend to see her there cause we 're in boston 
so we 're pretty far away . 
when we visit minnesota though we go to see her . 
the environment there , i do n't know too much about it 
but it seems nice enough . 
it 's hard , 
at least half of the residents are not mentally sound . 
so it 's hard to tell how much of that rubs off on those who are struggling to retain , clarity . 
from the lack of stimulation , you mean . 
i do n't know . 
we also , my wife and i volunteer to go to a nursing home that 's just a mile from our house . 
she goes more often than i . 
we used to go once every two months to visit some of the patients there . 
and we have a two year old son 
and so sometimes we 'd take him with us . 
and there i would say it 's the same thing . 
it 's a relatively nice environment 
but again it must be depressing for the people who are just essentially not able to take care of themselves in their own house but , certainly have retained all of their mental skills and so on . 
it must be depressing to walk the halls and see all these other people who really do n't know where they are . 
do you think that in the case of the one that you 've actually had some experience with , that the people who operate it seem to have , what you 'd perceive of as genuine concern ? 
i think , yeah , 
i think they 're relatively respectful . and concerned in as much as they can be . 
i 've noticed , some of the patients asking for things just repetitively but things that are not reasonable , 
i 'm sure that the staff learn what 's normal for this person 
and so it looks to me like maybe their not catering to this person 's needs is really because this person is just in a state where they do n't really need what they think they need . 
it 's possible , 
i was thinking also that there could be a fair burn out factor in just having to respond to people 's needs where the needs are sometimes , depending on the person , not going to be what we would perceive of as rational need . 
i 'll tell you one thing though that i saw that was really nice . 
we saw a husband and wife , 
we used to see a husband and wife in there together 
and they were in the same room which not all husband and wives were 
but these two were . 
and when you walked into their room , they had brought all their furniture from their house 
so it gives them a sense of identity . 
you walked in there 
and it did n't look like how , you walk into some rooms and it 's completely generic . 
there 's nothing , maybe a picture or two that belongs to that person 
and that 's it . 
but this room , on the other hand they got rid of all of the sort of standard issue beds and dressers and this and that 
and they had all their stuff from their house 
it was nicer to walk in there and to talk to them 
i think part of what you 're saying matches what i have read . 
i used to initially think that the only people who went into such residences were people who were adequately deficient in their abilities physical or mental , that they could n't take care of themselves . 
but i also know a couple of people whose parents have gone into such things because they provide a lot of social activities . 
and she was in there for awhile when they were away on vacation . 
i think it was sort of on the grounds that they were considering whether she would live there 
and i feel like , the whole vocabulary of this is very loaded if you think of words like put her in there . 
how are you ? 
you want to go ahead and start talking about whether you budget ? 
i feel like i am from mars . 
i 'm fifty years old 
and i 've been divorced for eighteen years . 
but i 've two kids and all . 
but i 've never had a budget 
and i do n't do any planning 
and i do n't know , 
i do n't have a long-term financial plan . 
i do n't try to control my expenses . 
but i 'm glad you 're a stranger . 
that sounds kind of like me . 
but , really i 'm curious how other people live . 
so maybe we should start with you . 
what do you do ? 
about the same thing . 
maybe they 're going to arrest us both . 
i 'm even in worse shape because i have eight children 
and we live from hand to mouth . 
we hope that there 's enough money at the end of the month to pay for the bills 
and if there 's not , then we mumblex due for the next month . 
a couple of times we 've tried some things 
and they worked 
but i 'm not disciplined enough to keep doing it . 
the best program we ever had is at the beginning of the month we took my check and divided it out into envelopes and then paid for the expenses out of that envelope 
and when the envelope was empty , then you did n't have any more money to spend in that area . 
and that worked out real well cause we did n't have to keep writing down what we 'd spent . 
it was just that when that was empty , you knew you were out of money . 
and we did that pretty successfully for about three months 
and then we started borrowing from one envelope to put it in the other envelope 
and in about two months we were back to doing the same thing we always do . 
i had a part-time job around fifteen years ago , seventy-six , 
and this was a sort of a career shift at the time 
and so i was willing to take a half time job to do that . 
and i actually did , 
i kept bouncing checks , just at the end of the month 
but i had miscalculated . 
i did n't keep a balance . 
it 's one of the problems . 
i never had to in the past . 
i always kept plenty of money in my checking account , 
things would get to tight . 
and sometimes what i would do is keep a piece of paper in my wallet 
and every time i spent money cash mostly , i would write it down so i could see at the end of a month how much i spent on food so i could do better planning . 
but i would forget to write the things down 
and i do n't know if i ever went as far as three months or not in keeping that kind of data . 
i certainly have n't done that in sixteen years or whatever . 
i even find now with the automatic tellers , i 'll go take money out of that 
and then i forget to take that out of my checking account . 
so i leave a little bit of a slush fund in my checking account 
and i figure that , so the balance showing in the checking account is always somewhat different that what 's really there . 
and i figure that gives me room for the mistakes i make . 
i have to say that , 
let 's see , 
at this point on , i do n't run out of money . 
and i do n't 
someday , if i were to get remarried i might want to buy a house which requires lots of money which i do n't have 
and i think my strategy if i may , is to not spend money . 
i do n't have expensive tastes . 
i do n't go out . 
i buy a car , 
it was nineteen years old . 
people were embarrassed for me . 
it was a good car 
but it was still running . 
it was great . 
my mechanics loved it because it was a sixty-five buick 
and it just would n't stop . 
i just did n't feel the need for a new car . 
it is n't like i could n't afford one . 
i tend to eat expensive food . 
i do n't mind buying a good steak 
but for me , i only do that every week or , maybe once a month . 
you buy a tenderloin steak , it costs outrageous twelve dollars a pound . 
you buy , less than half a pound 
so it 's six or seven dollars . 
to me , i realize if you have eight kids you 're not going to run out and do that . 
not very often . 
but i 'm just saying as a single person , that 's a drop in the bucket . 
and so if you 're extravagant on how you buy food , it does n't add up . if you 're not going to super expensive restaurants , which i do n't care to go to . 
that 's right . 
so that 's one of the reasons i do n't need to budget is that i do n't have to hold myself back from buying that expensive thing because i ca n't afford it , because i 'm not interested in that expensive thing . 
what sort of company do you work for ? 
do you work for a big or a little place ? 
i work for georgia tech . 
sir . 
i work for the research facility . 
and it 's kind of small in a sense 
but it does have , about two thousand civil employees . 
and , on a scale , i guess it 's still considered small . 
it just have a lot of different laboratories . 
the area i work in , it primarily have maybe a hundred people or so . 
so that make up most of the laboratory 
so from that standpoint , it 's pretty small . 
what about yourself ? 
i work for actually probably similar kind of place . 
i work for lincoln laboratory . 
we actually do some work with some people down at georgia tech . 
i see . 
so we 're actually part of m i t . 
so it 's very much the same kind of place the technical institution . 
while i was sitting here waiting while they tried to find somebody for me to talk to , trying to think of what things were important besides salary and a job list i had scribbled down was the people you worked with and maybe the challenge of the work and the working conditions , things like that . 
i do n't know . 
what sorts of things would you consider important ? 
those and probably the security aspect of it . 
and it may not be true in every place . 
in a lot of cases i think you 're treated more like a number instead of a person . 
because when it come down to layoff , they do n't really consider people and , their well being as far as how their next dollar going to come in . how they going to pay their bills . 
they just lay them off . 
i think the company still exists . 
what they use to do is , they used to cut the number of hours for everybody as opposed to just laying people off . 
that way that one person would n't get one big blunt blow at one time . 
unemployment is good 
but the company as a whole 
even the company is making money , 
they paying you a salary 
but you are responsible for that company growth . 
you 're responsible also for helping that company get to the point that it 's at at making profits . 
so there should be something in there or some kind of clause that will subsidize people if they did lose their job other than neglect or something like that . 
because it 's not a person 's fault that people not buying or businesses are not on the up and up all the time . 
i do n't see how one or two people , maybe more one or two , but a number of people can be the downfall of a company situation . 
how do you mean that ? 
in a sense that how do you make a conclusion that you 're going to lay off these ten people . for the bad times of the company . 
what about the work effort those ten people did when the company was doing well . 
in that standpoint . 
you think it 's better than to try to spread the effort equally among all the employees of the company 
i do . 
i really do . 
i think it 'd be better that way 
and even at that , it would at least give the person time to look for another job because they know that there are problems 
and there are reason to look for another job instead of just dumping it on them all at one time . 
that 's my views . 
i 've heard of a couple of companies that have done that . 
i think back about , a few years ago when things were tough , hewlett-packard did that for awhile . 
they went to a four and a half day work week rather than just cut everybody back ten percent . and have to , give everybody a half day a week off . 
and i think you can do that for a little while 
at least that would give a person a chance to look because the way it is , a person really do n't have a chance . 
how many children do you have now ? 
i have five . 
you have five ? 
you do have a hard time finding time then do n't you ? 
four of them are grown , 
they 're in college or just out of college 
so i really have just a thirteen year old at home . 
you sound so young . 
i work at it . 
to have them 
i try to fool everybody . 
i think you 're doing a good job . 
i just have one child . 
there 's not much i can do about it . 
my wife and i are , in our forties , 
but it 's hard to raise one child without them thinking they 're the pivot point of the universe . 
i think you are right 
because i was an only child too . 
and that 's one reason i have so many because i enjoy the big family . 
and my thirteen year old is pretty separate from her brother and sisters 
and so she is sort of like an only child 
and it 's the same type of thing , 
i have a younger brother like that . 
i 'm in my forties , like i say 
and i have a brother in his twenties . 
and i was the youngest . 
so i understand how that worked . 
and he was treated like he had five fathers or something . 
that 's exactly how it is . 
she 's got all these sisters and her brother to take care of her . 
when things do n't go right , she just calls one of them . 
it 's a little bit difficult , though . 
i think it was easier when they all had each other and could entertain each other and i was home more . 
did you all do a lot of organized things like little league soccer ? 
we really did not . 
my next oldest daughter that 's in college in california is a world twirling champion . 
she twirls a baton 
and we did a lot of things together . 
we have flown all over the world for her to compete and to perform . 
and that was a lot of fun . 
but i guess you could consider that organized . 
there is a competition all the time . 
we were very heavy into that . 
and maybe dancing school for a while or mainly school sports and things like that . 
i think that 's probably true . 
if you have one child or fewer , you get involved in organized events or activities 
and if you have a large number of children then you do n't . 
you ca n't afford to . 
and there 's not enough time 
my son is in little league this year . 
he 's ten . 
and they practice three times a week 
and they have a game 
if there were more than one child there would be no way to do it . 
that 's right . 
one parent go one direction 
and i 'd have to go in the other 
and we could only cover two at that . 
i know i spent hours in the gym every day with my daughter 
and my little one also competed because really she had no choice . 
she had to go with me . 
so the three of us just spent a lot of time traveling and competing 
and , of course , the competing itself , really did n't matter what it was , 
it was making the friends and going all the places 
and it was a really neat experience , 
but it took our total time . 
i did not work when i did this . 
now i do work full-time . 
and it 's just , my thirteen year old and myself 
and so we really have to keep it together to get just her activities in and still have time to spend with each other . 
i think three children is probably the ideal to me 
but i 'm not sure i could afford three . 
i most certainly could n't educate three . 
i do n't know how my parents did it . 
there were five of us 
and i do n't recall wanting anything in particular . 
but i do n't know how my father did it . 
he worked at a truck line 
and he just did n't make that kind of money with five children . 
but we did okay . 
but now , my wife and i both work 
and i do n't believe we have as much as my parents did 
and we only have one child . 
things cost a lot more . 
i do n't know how it is in georgia 
and i do n't think our part of the country is particularly bad compared to some . 
atlanta is horrible . 
is it ? 
we have a lot of people moving here from boston and different areas 
and from talking to them , they 're shocked . 
the housing is so cheap in comparison to boston that they jump on it . 
that 's what i 've heard . 
they sell their house , 
they stash away a good bit of money and come down here 
and i work with a lot of them , 
they think they have really done something . 
then when they get down here , they realize the cost of living is outrageous compared to where they came from . 
the housing is cheaper , 
but that 's about it . 
i 'm surprised to hear that . 
i 've heard very positive things about atlanta , 
i try to stay away from cars as much as possible in terms of repair . 
actually that is really a sore spot with me . 
i think perhaps the automotive industry is improving 
but ten years ago reliability of automobiles , at least u s automobiles was pretty dismal 
and not only that , but the repair capability of service departments and dealerships was equally dismal 
and it seemed that the only way i could reliably take care of my car was to repair it myself which is not my cup of tea . 
so do you have a car ? 
do you have a car ? 
at that time , actually , i had a volkswagen rabbit 
and it was a real lemon . 
subsequently i got a buick century 
and it was n't as bad . 
but last year i bought a honda accord 
and i take it in once every seventy-five hundred miles for its periodic maintenance 
and that is it . 
and it 's wonderful . 
we used to have a honda accord 
and they 're good . 
they 're really good cars . 
every time i get taken to an auto repair place every time i go , i get taken . 
bad . 
woman goes in 
and they go we got a sucker . 
let 's see how much money we can get out of her . 
that 's what happens every time . 
what do you have ? 
i have a pontiac six thousand . 
all the more reason to have a honda . 
but our honda just got old and just wore out . 
it was eleven years old 
and it just 
so . 
so you bought a pontiac ? 
my , ex-husband 's , 
this just happened a couple of weeks ago . 
he 's my ex-husband 
but just a few months ago when he was my husband his father gave us this car 
and everything is wrong with it . 
the power steering fluid leaks , 
the oil leaks , 
the brake fluid leaks , 
how old is the car ? 
eighty-seven . 
and he just does n't take care of things 
but i was awarded the car 
so . there is a man in my church that is a mechanic 
and i can trust him . 
so he is trying to get things fixed on it . 
but it 's just leak , leak , leak everywhere . 
but i hate to go into a repair place because they 'll tell me something is wrong with it and it 's not and charge me twice as much . 
the last time i took it into a repair shop , the man told me i needed a master cylinder . 
so i said okay . 
and he charged me a hundred and thirty something dollars 
and then about a month later , a man was looking at my car 
not a repair man , but just a friend 
and i was telling him that i just 
and he said that 's not a new master cylinder 
and i did n't even know what one was . 
and he showed it to me 
and it was old , rusty , just awful . 
it was no more new than nothing . 
so apparently it was the same one that was on there . 
more than likely . 
probably filled the brake fluid up 
and that was it . 
that was it , probably . 
i was so irritated . 
and that 's happened to me more than once or twice . just about every time i 've went in somewhere . 
so what 's the solution to that ? 
i guess find a reputable service , 
and you can hardly find one . 
the guy that 's doing most of my car now goes to my church 
and that 's the only reason i go to him because i know him 
and i know he will tell me the truth . 
because he does n't even charge me for doing it 
so he 's not going to take me . 
i just pay for the parts 
and he does it 
that 's wonderful . 
you 're lucky . 
i am , 
so , i do n't know . 
i do n't know what the solution to that is 
because the place where you buy your car , they 're usually the worst one of all . 
we took our honda to the honda dealership 
and they ended up telling us we needed a brand new engine for our car . 
and so , idiots as we were , neither one of us knew much about cars , 
they told us we just had to have one 
and we bought one . 
we did n't no more need no new engine , 
give me break . 
so it was not good 
do you know anyone that is in a nursing home or has ever been in one ? 
but my grandparents were looking into it before 
so i know what they 've said . 
i 'm trying to think . 
my wife 's grandmother had alzheimer 's 
and they were going to put her into a nursing home 
and when they put her in , she had all kinds of trouble 
and the nursing home made them come and take her back because she was being a nuisance . or worse than a nuisance , 
she sort of went bananas 
they thought it was too much of a bother . 
and they could n't deal with her . 
if they 're equipped to handle the kind of patients you 're going to have put in there too . 
because i know my grandparents wanted to have some independence still . 
they wanted some place they can go and have their meals and a nurse on staff just in case they needed her 
but they wanted to be independent as well . have their own room . 
there was some sort of full-time care place that was also associated with it 
so for the first few years she had her own apartment and made her own meals sometimes . but could also go and eat someplace else . 
and then as she became less able to take care of herself , then she moved into this other part that was able to provide full-time care 
and she did n't have to do anything anymore . 
but my experience has been that most people that move into nursing homes die very quickly . 
i do n't know whether that 's because they sort of give up hope once they get in there or what the reason is . 
but i think the average length of time that somebody lives in a nursing home is only six months or something . 
a lot of it 's probably to do with the fact that people go to it because they need help . 
they need health care 
so they 're already ill before they go . 
that 's probably a large factor . 
if you can take care of yourself at all or have someone that can take care of you , then you stay where you are . 
then you only go there as a last resort . 
or people send you there as a last resort . 
it was just so that the rest of the relatives would have peace of mind knowing that if anything happened , there was somebody there for them . 
so that was their thinking . 
somebody who would know what to do in the event of an emergency . 
and also so they could find someplace that they enjoyed while they still had choices to make . so they would n't be stuck going into just whatever nursing home was available at the time . 
i guess that 's a problem too for people . wait lists and all . 
i guess . 
you ca n't always get in when you want too 
and of course , you ca n't just sit around and wait . 
when you need it , you need it i guess . 
and the money is also another issue . how you 're going to pay for it . 
at that stage of life you only have so much money left 
and i guess it 's not exactly fair for the younger family members to have to put it in their savings . 
it is kind of fair , 
but it 's also not fair because they have their own children to raise . 
so it 's another problem . 
and if it were you , you probably would n't want someone choosing a place for you to live based on lowest price . 
so , it 's just so complicated anymore , i think . 
people outlive their savings . 
and , with medicine being the way it is , you 're extending life where sometimes the quality of living has gone down 
and they 're not necessarily enjoying life anymore . 
maybe that 's the purpose of the nursing home is to have them go someplace where they can see that it 's not worth continuing . 
it 's just a shame that 's the way it has to be . 
i think the retirement home idea 's a nice idea . 
to go and find older people and with similar interests and someplace to stay 
and cause if your spouse died all alone , it 'd be nice to go someplace with people similar to you . to have friends . 
i 've known quite a few people that have gone to retirement communities . 
i do n't know if they have them back there 
i 've had three boys through some child care , each one of them 
and now they 're in school 
so it 's all over 
but i guess i would say it 's not easy to find what most parents would want . 
i can profit by this because i 'm due with my first in about three months . 
is that right . 
i guess the only rule i can think of is that i like to look for places with , uh , good respectable , nonprofit behind them like a university or a hospital or something like that . 
if they 're associated with a college or a university , they 're usually a pretty good bet . 
i think it 's sort of the opposite of what you would want when you buy a car or refrigerator something . 
you 'd like to get it from some good cutthroat capitalist company but not with child care . 
i suppose you 're absolutely right there . 
for profit places , i would really look at them awfully carefully 
but when my kids were young , i was teaching at a university 
and the child care center associated with our university was quite good 
so i felt confident that they 'd do right . 
do n't everybody kind of use them for guinea pigs ? for their pet theories or some such thing ? 
you mean learning type , 
actual experiments they would have to get your permission . 
but 
i suppose if there is a psychology department or an education department around , you might find that they 're pushing one form of education or another , 
i guess that 's true . 
but i never had bad experience in that respect . 
of course , you also tend to get people that are associated with the university and the hospital as the parents , 
and they , pretty good people . 
the thing i really worry about is the sexual abuse cases you read about . 
and you 'd just feel awful if something like that happened . 
i never really worry very much about it . 
i tend to think those are very rare but quickly exploited and made public 
so , i never really worried too much about that being , the case with my boys . 
i think those things get into the headlines immediately when somebody finds out about them 
i do n't think it 's as common as the newspapers would make you believe . 
and another thing is cost . 
i know so many of my friends i went to school with who are having babies right now 
and in some cases they 're finding it 's just not worth it to work because it 's all going out in daycare . 
in our case , we made the decision that my wife would stay home until the boys were in school . 
and i 'm really happy we did it , although it was very , very difficult . 
and i think it was the right thing to do 
and we just decided that we would do it 
and we went ahead 
but not everybody can make that choice 
and even though my wife was n't working , we did have one or another of the boys in child care just for part of the day . or a couple of days a week just so that other things could get done around the house and so on , 
so , we did look around . 
i think my wife is much better than i am at that walking into a place and getting a feeling for whether it is a loving and caring place or not 
so i would always trust her judgment on that . 
i 'm just thanking heaven . 
my husband just got a new job . 
his last company , he was only working four days a week . 
and he just got a new job . 
he 's getting lots of overtime , 
he got a pay raise 
and so i 'm just grateful that we do n't have to worry so much about my working or not . 
there 's absolutely no question that you 're going to be the best child care provider for that kid 
so 
do it as long . 
i suppose . 
but i think you have to look through a place 
and you have to get a feel for how they treat the kids and what kind of staff members they have and how much turnover they have and things like that before you commit your child to them . 
and the main thing is that you have to determine that they 're perfectly open . that you 're welcome anytime without notice , in the middle of the day and so forth 
and if they 're at all queasy about that then i 'd look elsewhere , 
you have to start wondering if they do n't want you . 
you have other friends that have kids being taken care of in child care ? 
i have one 
but i have n't really had a chance to talk to her about that for a while . 
but , i really think the news reports tend to sensationalize the problems . 
i think the problems are more ones of cost and resources and pay and exhaustion and things like that , rather than these really wild abuse cases that you read about because it make good copy . 
this is true . 
current affair can , get several shows . 
what do you think ? . 
i ca n't be terribly authoritative on what life was like thirty years ago because i 'm not that old yet . 
i can be , 
but go ahead . 
obviously you look at the technological aspect of social change . 
you did n't have video games . 
you did n't have home computers . 
you did n't have xerox machines . 
you go into a business today 
and , you try to imagine the whole thing except running off of carbon paper 
and it 's almost inconceivable now because the xerox machines and everything have become such a part of the way we live . 
we fax everything . 
we do n't even wait for the mail anymore . 
a business associate of mine was talking about how it used to be where you would send things through the mail 
and you had to do something , 
this was concerning the s e c , 
and so if they had business to do , they had to finish it three days in advance so they could get it through the mail . 
and now it 's the kind of thing where you can work up until the last minute . because you can get it there in a matter of minutes through a fax machine 
and because of that , these quote , unquote convenience type items have made work that much more intense and that much harder . 
because you 're expected to work on stuff up until the last minute . 
and i recently read an article on just this , that said stress today is so much worse . 
it should be less because we have a microwave 
and our grandmothers had to bake brownies 
and we can throw them in a microwave for two minutes 
but the more conveniences we have , the more that 's expected of us 
and we have no down time . 
we do n't stop and wait for things to happen because we do n't have to . 
so we keep moving . 
we do n't stop and wait for the things to bake and this to happen and that to happen . 
we just hit buttons and keep going to the next thing . 
so we have no relaxation time in between 
so they say that 's really a bad thing . that you need to learn a lot of ways to deal with that and get your time in between things . 
so that 's good . 
that 's an interesting point . 
but i just think our family lives have changed drastically . 
of course a part of it is technology . 
our kids , where would they be without nintendo and their t v shows 
some of that is really bad i think . 
but , we have all single families . 
so many single families now . 
both parents are working . 
so there 's a whole big effect on our kids 
and not very many of my daughter 's friends really are on their original mother and father . 
i 'm wondering what this is going to do in ten and twenty years . 
there 's that 
and there 's the fact that nowadays fewer and fewer couples are deciding to have kids which generally tends to happen . 
the u s would be actually declining in population slightly if it were n't for the fact that we , have continuation , large scale immigration into the country . 
you 're probably right . 
and i 'm an o b nurse 
and that 's never really occurred to me 
but that 's interesting . 
i never really thought about it that way . 
i saw the numbers on that awhile back 
and i was uh-huh 
that 's true . 
when is this good or not good . 
in terms of the long term effect on america , in terms of the culture and everything , i do n't know . 
we do n't know that yet . 
an , extremely large part of the next generation is going to be , second generation from immigrant parents . 
i do n't know either . 
that 's true . 
and they 're going to be really struggling 
and i do n't think that america is currently the type of environment where struggling up from the bottom is necessarily considered to be good . 
it 's no longer the accomplishment that it once was 
and not that many people are really trying i do n't think . 
that 's kind of scary . 
. that 's true . 
it 's just very , very different 
and i guess every ten years it 's just been very different . 
. and i do n't know what 's going to happen . 
i know what i 'm seeing here at my job is that people are having their children much later in life so that they 're establishing careers 
and they 've got their homes 
why do n't you go ahead and start . 
i think the court systems could stand some improvement . 
trial by jury is good 
but a lot of cases , is circumstantial evidence that convicts a person , which i do n't think is all the time good . because sometimes it 's hard to get all the facts and to prove a person guilty if you do n't really know or you do n't really have an eyewitness . 
and how can you convict somebody on circumstantial evidence is beyond me . 
i do n't know . 
so you think if trials were held by judges or experts , that they would tend not to convict people on circumstantial evidence ? 
i think so . 
i attended a trial in germany when i was a student 
and that 's the sort of system they have . 
they 're like lawyers i guess . 
they 're experts in the law 
and there really is n't a jury 
and they do the questioning also . 
the judges do the questioning 
i think it 's a lot harder to get off on technicalities also because the judge is also sort of a jury , 
but i 'm not sure i like that . 
i think i prefer the jury system myself . 
you think you prefer the jury ? 
you think your chances are better ? 
actually i think in most criminal cases it would n't make any difference whether it was a couple of judges or jury . 
what i worry about is cases where it 's the government against the individual . 
that 's where you really need a jury of peers . 
because anytime the government is the government against the individual you need the protection of ordinary citizens . 
that 's true . 
i think that 's really the only thing . 
i guess i do n't think that juries need to decide sentencing all the time . 
i think maybe a judge is a better judge of that 
sometimes the sentencing is not fair . 
the jury , i guess they do decide that 
but , i 'm like you , 
i do n't know , 
maybe i 'm too , conservative when it comes to that . 
the sentencing is really light compared to what i think they should be in a lot of cases , 
if you drag twelve people into a courtroom , i trust them to make the right decision as to whether someone 's guilty or innocent . 
that 's usually a matter of who to believe and what facts to believe . 
but people who do n't have day in and day out life long experience with what prison is really like and what the options are , to ask them to decide for one case , on one person , based on what they see , i think that is maybe a little bit naive . 
in texas here , people tend to get whipped up into a frenzy and slap long sentences on people . 
it 's kind of a hanging jury atmosphere . 
but in a lot of places , i think people bend over the other way , 
but i guess i like the system that they have in some places where the defendant gets to choose whether he goes before a jury for sentencing or whether the judge gets to choose it . 
some cases in some jurisdictions , they can do that . 
i kind of like that system . 
that 's not a bad system . 
but i do think it needs to be shaken up a little bit . 
but , the thing is too , maybe they need more of a expert types to be on some of these jury cases because most time you just pick joe blow or whoever and a good citizen or whoever and call them in . 
and lawyers blow sand in their eyes . 
i would like to see most civil cases tried before a panel of experts instead of ordinary juries . 
insurance cases and things like that . 
and there would be more honest settlements instead of this tugging of people 's heart strings and making them cry and feel like they 're doing somebody good by giving them two million dollars to make up for the pain and suffering . 
putting on a act or whatever . 
so . i think , in criminal trials you need the jury as a defense against the government 
have you had that experience recently ? 
recently , 
i ca n't really say recently . 
but i think about a year ago i bought a product from some company down in atlanta , georgia . 
i believe it was one of these , mixers . these juice machines 
and the blade they sent me at first that went into the machine , it looked perfectly okay 
even , despite diligent washing , it got rusty after about three weeks of use . 
and i do n't think it was my fault because i had made a point of drying it off and cleaning it 
something was very , very wrong with the blade . 
what about you ? 
i do n't have so much trouble with products as service . 
i do n't feel like that 's as big a problem . 
i 've had a few answering machines over the last two years just because i 've had a lot of trouble with them working correctly . 
and i 'm not convinced that any of them work a hundred percent . 
the one i have now is okay , most of the time . 
but that 's it . 
but that 's probably the worst . 
my daughter has a charm bracelet i bought her that 's guaranteed . 
james avery . 
i do n't know if you have that up there 
but it 's a very good company . that sells sterling silver things 
and she has a charm bracelet with lots of charms on it , a lot of money into it by now 
and the catch broke 
and she was sitting in school on a carpet 
and when she stood up , it caught and broke 
and we took it back 
and they said this was just obviously yanked . 
this was yanked . 
they were so rude about it . 
and so we wanted a different kind of catch 
and she said it 's not guaranteed . 
and i said , put it on because apparently nothing 's guaranteed 
so do it anyway . 
so we got the kind we wanted 
and i was really disappointed with that . 
i felt that this was a company that should have been more reliable 
and i happened to need a birthday present for one of her friends 
and i called there to see if they had it 
and the lady was very nice . 
and i said my goodness , 
i said you 've been very nice , 
what 's your name . 
and she told me 
and i said i really appreciate it . 
i said there seems to be a big attitude problem in that , store 
and it turned out she was the assistant manager 
at least you 're talking to somebody who counts . 
so i felt kind of good about that . 
i did n't even know the person 's name that had given me the hard time or anything 
but i just felt like , at least i did something . 
maybe they 'll fix it . 
they might work on that . 
but i find attitudes are more of a problem . 
service is more of a problem . 
up here in the northeast we have these mail order companies like l l bean 
and they are famous for having really top-notch service . 
i 've heard stories where you can literally buy something from them one year , wear it for a year and a half , and even after eighteen months of reasonably satisfactory use , they will accept it in any condition 
and they will gladly take it back if for some bizarre reason you decide you do n't want it anymore . 
they 'll actually do things like this . 
they bend over backwards service wise for you . 
i 've found also a lot of companies nowadays , they have eight hundred numbers you can call . 
that 's really great . 
i guess you can call up any eight hundred number directory assistance , and you can get the eight hundred number of the customer service support line for a number of companies . 
and actually i 've tried that with a few companies lately . 
and most of them have been pretty good , 
i guess one of bean 's big competitors is land 's end out in wisconsin somewhere . 
the customer is always right 
and no matter how crabby you might be over the phone , they are very understanding 
and they make sure things are set properly if you 're any way dissatisfied with their merchandise . 
that 's really good . 
it use to be like that . 
i do n't think most places are like that anymore . 
things are getting rough out there , 
the morale among employees tends to go down 
we , in our family , have been pretty remiss in trying to keep track of daily finances . 
and we kept that going for about a month 
and it became so onerous that we gave up on it . 
that sounds about right . 
so the only thing that we do now is i keep a little spread sheet of what i call the net worth calculation which is just the present value of various kinds of investments and so worth . 
and i only update that maybe once every quarter or so . every three months . just , basically when the statements come in just to see whether or not we 're getting ahead , falling behind or staying even or what . 
that 's really about the extent of the kind of financial score keeping that we 're doing . 
it 's kind of difficult for me . because right now like most teachers , i 'm laid off 
that 's terrible . 
i substitute a lot . 
so it 's very hard on a nonfixed income because i do n't know how many days i 'm going to be called in and whether i am or not , to try to keep track of finances . 
but i know how much i have to bring in a month . 
and that 's about it . 
that 's about as far as we go . 
and then anything extra is more or less split up between all of us . and just thrown in the kitty , more or less , for a rainy day . 
i see . 
are you married ? 
i 'm a single mother . 
i have three children . 
i see , 
so right now , we get aid from the state at this point because there 's no other way to do it . 
and my ex-husband just sort of took off and does n't pay child support . 
so right now i know what i 'm getting from the state 
and i have to balance , more or less , what i get from the state with my bills and try to work as many days as possible . any time they call me in . 
if i work too many days , then i lose all my state aid 
and if i do n't work enough days then i do n't get enough to meet the bills 
and it 's like a juggling act every single month . 
this week i 've been just holding my breath and hoping they 'll call me in 
but they probably wo n't because next week the kids have school vacation . 
i see . 
so the four days before , they only have a four day week 
and they usually do n't need subs because everybody 's pretty good about coming in . 
i see . 
they do n't like to be absent before a vacation . 
but i 'm shopping around as far as trying . and getting pledge sheets for the boy scouts . 
my kids are in boy scouts 
so trying to get pledge sheets for the boy scouts 
because every penny i bring in is ten percent to me . 
so it sort of helps defray the costs a little bit . 
but we do a lot of robbing peter to pay paul . 
i guess we 're in the situation that a lot of middle-class americans are in . 
his company went bankrupt . 
actually , it was a subsidiary of an outfit called u s shoe or something . 
it was a computer subsidiary . 
i do n't know what a shoe company 's doing running a computer company . 
they took the top management and gave them jobs at the corporate front office 
and everybody else was sent packing . 
hang on one second 
somebody was knocking on my door here . 
it sounds terrible to say , 
but at the present stage , you probably are even more in the market for a budgetary thing than most people probably might be . in terms of keeping score of input and output . 
do you have a computer at home 
we do . 
i keep track of every penny . and , more or less , enter it in . 
every single day i 'm at the computer . 
i see . 
and , it 's what do we have left , what do we have to pay , what have we paid this month . what has n't come in yet . 
do you use a standard spread sheet 
i 'm not as ashamed to claim them this year as i have been . 
let 's put it this way . 
we 've got the new england patriots up here 
they 've had some serious problems in the past couple of years . 
why ? 
partly due to ownership . 
victor kiam owned the patriots for a period of a number of years 
and he always had this wonderful quality of being able to put his foot in his mouth every time he went to say something 
and they 've had some financial problems with the team and so forth . 
and it recently was sold to some other people 
so , hopefully , this ownership can set up new direction and keep the patriots in the new england area anyways . 
i 've been to a few games before . 
you 're from texas . 
so you 've got two football teams down there . 
it depends on where you 're from in texas . 
i live right by dallas 
so we have one football team as far as we 're concerned . 
i see . 
that 's how it is . 
there 's that type of segregation ? 
it 's divided , 
it really is , 
so we 've got our cowboys here 
and , i do n't think anybody roots differently 
but i have a boyfriend that lives in fresno 
do you , 
and he is for the raiders . l a raiders , 
do you follow professional sports at all ? 
i just started to this year because of these silly raiders that did n't do very well , 
but i 've been trying more this year . 
i think i know a little more than i use to . 
i never knew very much at all 
so i 'm trying . 
it 's a good past time . 
particularly football . 
they say football attracts more men because of the physical aggression on the field 
and supposedly , psychologists say that , men take out their frustrations by watching football 
and they get together with a bunch of guys 
and they have a good time and everything 
so i should n't even try to do it ? 
it 's good in terms of a contest . 
i think that i personally like hockey better because it 's a contact sport . 
it has the speed . 
and the hand eye coordination 
and it takes a certain skill to play hockey . 
not everybody can play hockey . 
we 're a big hockey area up here , 
i bet up here in new england as well as in the minnesota area 
i do n't even think we have that in texas . 
what , hockey ? 
we might . 
do we ? 
you probably know , 
i do n't know . 
there 's no hockey , 
nobody talks about it 
so i do n't think we do . 
there 's no professional hockey teams in texas . 
and we have a soccer team that comes and goes . 
we do n't even have that very much , 
i think though that professional football in particular , is becoming so diluted now . 
they have this world football league . 
you see , 
we have the n f l that dallas and houston are in and new england patriots and l a raiders and those teams . 
there are those teams that play in , national football league 
but now they have what 's called the world football league 
there 's a team in london 
and there 's , other european teams 
and there 's teams in the united states 
and they 're playing now during the summer months 
and it 's really overkill . 
and there 's only so much football you can watch . 
i do n't like to watch . 
that 's good . 
i do n't like to watch anything . 
so it kind of annoys me when people just lay in front of a t v and watch all this stuff . 
i think it 's an , excuse to do nothing 
and i can see what you 're saying about the male bonding 
and the guys get together 
and that 's kind of cool . 
that 's fun . 
but it can get really overdone . 
have you ever been to a professional football game ? 
i have . 
have you ? 
i have . 
actually . 
that 's what you got to do . 
i 've done that for college football . 
the same thing . 
there 's about six or eight guys that we use to go out for these games . 
and we talked our wives into going with us one time 
and they had a real good time 
and it was , basically , for the social atmosphere . 
and that 's the thing . 
you go three or four hours before the game . 
you go set up . 
we set a table up , 
we do some cooking , some barbecueing , have a few drinks and then go in and see the game and see the patriots lose and then go home and eat , drink some more . 
it 's not so much the contest itself and the game itself , 
but it 's the whole atmosphere of going to a game . 
that you miss sitting home in your parlor with a six pack of beer and some potato chips 
that 's right . 
you miss that . 
that 's right . 
and any professional sport i think , you miss that . 
the atmosphere of being there . 
in high school i went to every football game 
and i twirled . 
i still do n't know that much about football , obviously . 
but i still had a good time , 
the question was talking about the juries 
maybe there should be stiffer penalties for those people who come back again and again . 
so that a judge would be the most appropriate person to be able to sentence somebody since they do it over and over again every day . 
i kind of agree with that , because i think in some cases the jury may not even have , the information about other crimes the person has committed . 
i think that in some cases that 's considered to prejudice the current case 
so a judge should have the whole dossier of the criminal there 
and if they 're judged guilty would probably be in a better position to give an appropriate sentencing . 
i agree with you . 
one thing i heard was this , where instead of going to the regular court , they have a mock court . 
it 's supposed to be all legal and everything . 
you go 
and you present your case , 
the other side presents their case 
and you 're done with it . 
it 's almost like the night court we see on t v . 
it did n't backlog all of the cases that are all ready pending . 
that was one thing i thought about that would be really neat if we could do it that way . 
there would be some types of crimes for which you 're not guaranteed a jury trial ? 
there 's a point on which we do n't agree . 
i would tend , myself , to say that we should continue to guarantee a jury trial for criminal cases anytime one of the parties wants one . 
and usually it is the defendant that wants to have the jury hear the case . 
that would require a change in the bill of rights , i believe 
and i did n't mean that . 
i did n't mean that , 
i would feel that my civil rights had been violated . 
but i meant for some , when both parties agreed that we 're going to have a judge here . 
we 're not going to have a jury , 
let 's get it over with . 
sort of car accidents , 
i think that 's all ready possible . 
i think , that you can waive the right to a , jury trial 
so . i agree that that should be encouraged . 
people should know that that 's an option just in case they feel they have to have a jury trial . 
but i think most lawyers do a pretty good job of making that evident to clients unless they feel they can tweak a jury into giving a different sentence or possibly , if it 's a civil case , giving higher awards of money or something since usually the lawyers get a percentage of the award . 
giving a different sentence . 
the take . 
i guess we were supposed to be doing criminals though , rather than civil . 
is that right ? 
we 're at liberty to talk and meander as long as it 's all on the same theme . 
in the case of , civil things maybe the use of the jury is very , often to the lawyer 's advantage 
and i think that may be where jury use is overdone , 
there are cases where they could be settled , maybe out of court a little more efficiently . 
it 's to their advantage to play to as big an audience , as possible 
so . i was wondering too , if they were thinking about the judge making awards in civil cases not just sentencing in a criminal cases . 
i 'm not so sure i 'm in favor of that . 
but i am in favor of it for criminal cases 
so there 's a difference of my view there for those two . 
you can tell i have n't been in too many judges chambers or anything like that . 
have you ever had to serve jury duty ? 
i was called once when i was nineteen 
but i was doing so many other things that they took pity on me 
they let me out . 
an- , i 've never had to since 
and that was almost twenty years ago . 
sort of amazed me 
that would have been about twenty years too 
just last year 
and the case i heard was a criminal case 
and it seemed really , trivial . 
it involved two bicycles . 
we did n't do the sentencing . 
the judge did . 
how interesting . 
we rendered a verdict 
and then the judge was the one to do the sentencing . 
and that was here in wisconsin . 
actually , i 've been involved in electronics a long time . in computers 
and i have really resisted the impulse to get one for the home . up until maybe about a year and a half ago , 
i got one for my son . a macintosh l c . 
it 's a real easy to use color computer 
and i got a very nice printer that goes along with it 
and he uses it for his school work . 
i 'm currently in school 
so i 've had an i b m clone for a couple of years now , which i 've been , continually upgrading . 
and i 've found that i pretty much become addicted to it 
i 've found that most of homework assignments really require some sort of computer simulation or analysis , 
it 's very essential for me . 
schools have them , 
but lot of times so difficult to get on them at school . 
it 's much more convenient to have one at home . 
where you going to school ? 
at georgia tech . 
i see . 
in engineering ? 
so that explains all the computer assignments . 
do you use your p c for things other than explicit computer work ? 
i have some games , of course , which i play on there 
and i have a program which allows me to access a weather data bank 
so i can check up on the weather around the country or whatever which is a hobby . 
so , it provides other means other than just strict computations and so on , 
so . do you have a computer for yourself at home ? 
i just have one for my son 
and i really sort of have the feeling that word processing is a big market for home computing . 
at work , i 'm a technologist , 
and i , in the past , have done a great deal of , system development just through software development programming . 
but now i find myself using the computer , 
even the computer at work is primarily a word processing system and a communication system . 
do you use email and like that ? 
emil probably pulls down a third of all my time . 
i have modem 
so i can log into the network at georgia tech and access my account through there , which can be useful . 
but 
obviously , i do almost all of my report writing on my computer whether it 's term papers or even some smaller homework assignments . 
so it 's really become my mainstay i guess . 
i ca n't even remember , 
actually i do n't think i 've ever used a typewriter in my life to do a report . because my family , when i was growing up , we got a basic computer . t r s eighty when they first came out . 
and i even used that to do my first reports when i was in junior high , 
i 'm a old-timer . 
i did my master 's thesis on a typewriter . 
i rented an i b m selectric . 
and it was a pretty big deal . 
it must have been tough . 
it 's a little bit strange for me . 
i did my master 's thesis last year 
and i did that on a computer 
i just ca n't imagine how people did it before . 
it must have been just so much work . 
it was just a completely different world then . 
so you used your son 's macintosh then ? 
do you like that kind of computer ? 
i like it , 
i like it from a distance really . 
i see the packages on it that are available 
and it 's nice . 
i really do n't use it myself . 
when i come home from work , i like to stay far away from computers and electronic things . 
so i let my son do it 
it 's sort of a joke 
but it 's really true , 
the old-timers , even the people who are technologists do n't know how to operate these electronic things like v c r -s and whatnot 
and the kids , they just take to it like candy . 
not very good 
it 's not been a good day . 
i turned mine in about twelve hours early at noon . 
i do n't know . 
i finished mine up about eleven and left it here with carolyn 
so i hope she 's turned it in . 
are you eating ? 
go ahead , 
i 'll stop eating . 
i just barely got home from the university . 
say what ? 
i just barely got home from the university . 
tell you what we can do is i can punch the one , 
and then after five minutes when the voice comes on , we can talk all night if we want . 
go ahead , 
fire away . 
i love the irony of talking about this subject on april the , fifteenth . 
but i 'm afraid i 'm probably in the minority . 
i agree with you . 
i guess i do have a bone to pick with the way taxes are distributed . 
i just finished fuming at the fact that we pay an eight and a half percent sales tax and no income tax when the income tax could have been deducted from the federal form 
and the sales tax ca n't . 
i think that 's regressive 
and it 's kind of dumb . 
i hate the eight and a half percent sales tax . 
but , on the other hand , i do n't mind that it 's only on things that are n't like groceries and that , 
it 's not on that . 
nobody taxes groceries . 
they do . 
where ? 
in arizona . 
is that right ? 
but we have a pretty low tax rate here . 
i think the sales tax , they just got to do something about it . 
but that 's the politicalness of trying to not create any new taxes . 
but i guess when i see the comparison between the united states and any other western country their rates are forty-one , forty-two and ours are thirty-six , thirty-seven , 
if you compute as a percentage of total income , all taxes lumped together , we actually do pretty well . 
there 's no other country that is taxed as low as we are . 
and i still think that , having lived in europe for awhile difference in living conditions are certainly well worth what we pay for it . 
i 'm not sure i understand what you mean . 
i was in germany for several years 
and i 'd a lot rather pay taxes here and have what we have , then have to live there . 
you mean , lowest end of living in spite of higher taxes . 
higher taxes . 
i suppose that 's true , 
probably less so now than it was ten years ago or whatever 
still 's that way to some extent . 
i think the other problem is it 's easy to complain about taxes because there 's something you , theoretically , can do something about . 
and you 're not quite in the same situation 
but school taxes for me . 
i wish i did n't have to pay any more to my physicians in a year than i had to pay for all of my school taxes . 
that 's probably a little tougher on you . 
but i pay them gladly . 
that 's a decision , 
i think it 's a dumb decision on our part because countries like canada and england and germany do perfectly well with a two tract system in which religious schools coexist with secular schools with the same tax money . 
but that 's the way americans want to interpret it , 
i guess that 's all right . 
when i was single and again when i 'm retired , i will not mind paying what it takes to keep the schools good . 
that 's always been a high priority . 
i think that 's just you though . 
i do , 
that 's true . 
i think in places like california , people are beginning to find that in areas that are fairly well off , if you add the people of various sexual persuasions and those who never intend to marry and those who are retired and those are just looking for fun , people with families turn out to be such a small minority that they ca n't get a tax bill passed no matter what happens . 
and , there are big sections of the country where people with children of school age are such a small minority that they ca n't get anything done . 
that seems like a cultural lapse . 
people always used to be willing to ante up for the schools . 
of course , i think with the graying of america , we 're going to see that problem in lots of places . 
people would rather increase the fire department and cut down the schools because it means more to them . 
but i think it 's sad selfish and shortsighted . 
or build roads . 
actually i 'm fairly pleased with the benefits that we have working for a large corporation . 
and , for me , there 's absolutely no question what 's the most important benefit 
i think it 's health care . 
i think everybody would say that . 
and if you try to get it outside of your corporation , you 're going to pay an arm and a leg . 
sometimes i think it 's more important than salary . 
do you also get dental ? 
and i do n't know if i would rank that second 
but since i have three boys it can turn out to be important . 
you know 
i know . 
in a given year , dental expenses can really kill you . 
my husband is with northwest airlines 
and he gets the full health and dental 
and we have four children 
and what you pay just to have teeth cleaned is outrageous . 
and i do n't know how people that do n't have it can afford it . 
or maybe they do n't . 
and then if the cleaning does n't get you , the orthodony will . 
that 's right . 
that 's right . 
i guess that would be up there . 
i 'm not sure how i would rank that compared to retirement 
or pretax savings was another thing that i think is a great benefit . 
and i think it 's really something that the government ought to encourage more because there are all these complaints about how we 're not a saving country and where the average savings rate is something like four percent in this country and fifteen percent in germany and japan . 
it 's a lot easier to save it when you do n't get your hands on it first . 
when you have the economy to scale and everything that a large corporation has , you can offer some incentive 
and if the government goes along by not taxing it when you put it aside you can really build up the savings that you would n't otherwise do 
what about , lesser benefits perhaps for you but for the women in the corporation . 
leave ? 
do they have father leaves or anything like that ? 
i do n't think so yet . 
they may have just plain parental leave , which either one can take . 
i know their maternity leave is on the order of six weeks which i think is too short . 
i do too . 
i really think that we need to get into the mold where we talk about years rather than months or weeks . 
i think it 's just a crying shame for a mother to have to go back to work at six weeks . 
she is n't recovered . 
and the infant needs her desperately , at that point and time . 
there ought to be some compromise where the person would be guaranteed a career type position but not necessarily a continuation of exactly the same position in exchange for a longer period of time . 
i agree . 
it 's so important to families then 
and yet anybody who 's gotten far enough to get a good salary is really reluctant to give that up . 
especially in this day and age . 
you do n't want to start over again anywhere . 
you 're right . 
i think you 've put your finger on the one benefit that i would most like to see changed . the parental leave . 
i think they 've come a long way . 
at least some companies . 
and as manager they have a very , very poor leave policy 
and i just do n't know how women do it . 
particularly , single parents who do n't have the support at the other end . 
they do it by shortchanging their kids . 
there 's no other way unless they 're part of some extended family which is unlikely . 
that 's right . 
that 's exactly right . 
and it 's just a terrible choice , 
you should n't have to make it . 
you 're right . 
one of the benefits we get , of course , is travel . 
would i like to have that . 
it 's wonderful . 
the only trouble is that you can afford to go anywhere 
but you ca n't afford to stay once you get there . 
listen 
i have friends in a lot of different cities . 
if you just fly me there , i 'll take care of that . 
that 's right . 
you have to have an awful lot of fun 
just getting there , has to be half the fun . 
taxes are really a necessary evil in a civilized society . 
but really , people get upset at taxes because it 's more efficient to do things yourself . 
and so as a result it 's a trade-off for the common good for the benefit of others . 
how much of your resource should you dedicate to making things work for others ? 
have you ever thought just how much of that money should go to other people that really do n't deserve it ? 
i know it 's a lot that i feel just like you said , that , there 's just so much that you can do yourself . that you take care of your own self that you do n't need the money for 
but they 're giving it to other people that do n't really need it either , 
but yet they accept it . 
the thing of it is , if i wanted to just permanently become a book reader , i guess i could just go on public assistance look for people to take care of me . 
like so many people do . 
and probably a good woman , 
just con somebody to take care of me . 
and then you do n't have to be on the tax roll . 
but taxes are very difficult kind of thing 
and everybody really hates it . 
it was very timely . 
i always over pay my deductions 
so i wind up getting money back from my , withholding . 
that 's always a smile . 
but , of course i 've paid it in 
and i should calculate it better . 
you are you in business for yourself ? 
i work for the f b i . 
so i 'm a federal employee . 
guess i do n't sound like it ? 
i think that people that work for the government are just as against taxes as everybody else . 
unless you work for internal revenue . 
i 've got all four feet in the trough being a federal employee . 
but i can understand who gets benefits . 
every time there is a bond issue i vote no on every one of them . 
but , this is , not tax revolt country . 
most of us have all four feet in the trough plus our snout , right up to our ears . 
so it 's not exactly that kind of a place that you want to get into a tax revolt situation . 
but the local taxes here , in this particular area i think i pay about thirty-five hundred for taxes on my four bedroom house which is a lot of money . 
and so as people get older and older they think about retirement and that sort of thing 
and they 're building old people 's homes at tax expense . 
i think the old people ought to just bail out of here and go where it 's cheaper . 
at thirty-three hundred dollars or thirty-five hundred dollars i 'm paying in taxes i could go down to bulverde and probably rent a house for that ? 
that 's right . 
instead , it 's the taxes here 
course i do n't know whether i want to go to bulverde or not or seguin or someplace like that . 
but there 's certainly lots of inexpensive places where the services are poorer . 
and i think really the only place you can really reduce the amount of taxes you pay is to move to an area where the services are poorer . 
that 's a strategy that the people have to take . is how to be able to lessen their cost of living 
i 'm five or six years before i 'm eligible to retire 
and i 'm saying i really ca n't stay here as a retiree . 
after you retire , 
it 's too expensive . 
i 'm going to have . 
my parents are in the same situation . 
their home is paid for 
but still their taxes are so high , that my father does n't feel like he can retire because they could n't pay their taxes . 
and they have no children in school or anything now . 
they do n't use any of those services that a lot of the taxes go towards . 
they redecorated in nineteen seventy-five . 
and they 're not doing it again , . 
you must be a t i employee . 
you must be what ? 
you must be a t i employee ? 
i 'm not . 
who do you work for ? 
i do n't work . 
i 'm a student . 
i go to school . 
i 'm in nursing school . 
i do n't know what you drive now . 
what do you drive now ? 
i have a ford pickup 
and the family car is a dodge caravan . because we have three kids and they 're under thirteen 
throw them in the back . 
they sort of fit our requirement . 
i have one of those pickups with a seat in the back . 
cab . 
and so they just fit in there . 
when they get to be teenagers with long legs , it may not work . 
right now , i can throw them all in the back when we have room 
and since i do a lot of projects , i throw things in the back 
there you go . 
and i kind of like having a pickup truck . 
actually , i think of it , as a car that 'll last . 
i know . 
i like the way trucks are built 
and i do n't care about comfort . 
so , i 'm pretty happy . 
i got a toyota four runner . 
i wanted something that i could throw people in the back too , 
so i got a four runner . 
so i would n't hesitate to get another one . 
i never buy new 
so i would n't hesitate to get another used truck . 
you 're just like me . 
i 've never bought a new vehicle in my life . 
and 
i do n't need to pay for the glitz . 
i 'll let somebody else have the showroom shine 
and i 'll pay for the rest of it . 
let somebody else break it in , 
we might go again on a van . 
we could probably do with something just a little bit larger than a compact in a sedan next time . 
i 'm not sure . 
we 'll have to face it in a couple of years 
but i guess , we had a small toyota wagon 
and we were real happy with that because my second requirement after price is low maintenance . 
and it certainly had that . 
we did n't do much to it at all . 
pretty much the same . 
like i say i got one of those toyota four runners 
and it pretty much does everything i need it to . 
it 'll tow three thousand pounds 
so i can tow everything 
i 've had eleven people in it before . believe it or not . 
and it 's real reliable , 
i 've had it for almost four years now 
and up until two weeks ago , it had never had anything wrong with it . 
i do n't know , 
it 's the strangest , weirdest thing in the world , 
but it blew a head gasket . 
did n't do any damage to it . 
i caught it real early . 
at how many miles ? 
ninety-seven thousand . 
so it 's not real early . 
you did n't overheat it ? 
never overheated it . 
i smelled the coolant . 
went out and looked . 
saw where it was coming from . 
drove it right to the shop and left it off . 
and that was it 
and then i have a kawasaki motorcycle . which is , actually , usually my preferred mode of transportation if i can take it and it 's not raining . 
that 's sort of my , hobby though more than a vehicle . 
i do n't know , 
people who buy motorcycles for transportation are kidding themselves . 
i have one colleague that commutes to work on one when it 's not raining 
he 's pretty conservative guy . 
i do n't think it 's much of a sport for him . 
i know 
but i bet you he really enjoys riding it . 
i 'm sure he does , 
when was the last time you took your truck out just to go driving ? 
and i go out twice a week on the bike , . at least . just for the enjoyment . 
but 
the only thing i think i might get , a new car or , not necessarily a new car but , another car , 
i would consider going to a normal pickup rather than a covered pickup like the one i 've got . just because there 's a lot of times i wished i had , just an open bed to throw stuff in . 
you got one . 
that 's really convenient to be able to throw that sort of stuff in the back 
if i only had some place that i could store the camper top , i would have it off most of the time . 
i really leave it on there just to have it out of the way because you put it on the ground it gets dirty . 
to have it out of the way . 
but they 're solid . 
i think they last a lot longer than anything else . 
they 're the only things americans still know how to build 
even though the little jap trucks are good there too . 
i do n't like the chevies as much as i like the fords . 
i think the fords tend to last a little longer . at least until recently . 
i kind of like mine , 
so , mine 's a ford . 
it 's a really nice truck . 
i do n't like dodges at all 
but one of the dodges they have out now has the cummins turbo diesel on it . 
i heard about that , 
it 's beautiful . 
that thing will last forever , 
that 's a serious truck . 
it 's got a boat engine in it . 
i know a contractor who just got one of those . 
he 's pleased with it . 
think about this ? 
do you have children in school ? 
i do . 
i have two that are now just about ready to graduate from college 
but i also have two that are just entering school . 
i think they 're just pushing them entirely to fast . 
so you see a big difference then in before and now do you 
a lot of testing ? 
it seems to me that kindergarten is now the equivalent of first grade . 
my son leaves the house at seven thirty and does n't get home until three o'clock . 
and i think that 's such a long day for a kindergartner . 
i do too , 
i think that 's awful . 
and i have a preschooler . 
i was told by her preschool teacher that she thought maybe she was to immature for kindergarten 
and i thought how mature do you have to be . 
i know . 
what 's the new criteria . 
do you have the standardized testing now ? 
we have all kinds of testing 
and it 's over and over . 
it 's i t b s and , just everything . 
and they test , test , test . 
i live in plano actually 
and i do n't know if you 've heard of plano 
but it 's a very transient community . 
a lot of people from everywhere , 
it 's just north of dallas 
and it 's grown in leaps and bounds . 
we must have maybe a hundred and fifty thousand people now . 
and most of them from other places . 
j c penney 's come down from new york and , of course , t i and xerox from rochester 
and we just , have lots of people from everywhere . lots of industry coming in , 
and it 's a very wealthy community . 
not that i am 
but other people seem , to be 
and i would love to know why 
but they do . 
you would like to know what they 're doing . 
i would , 
i really would . 
they just have beautiful , beautiful homes 
and they have everything . 
the kids only wear name brand things to school 
and it 's one of these things , 
that makes it hard for you , does n't it . 
it does . 
it really does because i 'm a single mom and i have a thirteen year old now 
and it does . 
we do it to a point 
but not to where she feels different , 
but some of them are very rich 
it 's hard to explain to them why you ca n't . 
and so we just kind of have , everything here 
and we have a very goal oriented population because their parents are . 
and so i do n't know how much of it , is us and how much of it is texas 
but the kids are expected to excel in , everything . 
and it 's almost impossible because you have so many children and just so many activities that everybody ca n't be first 
and they 're expected to be . 
their parents expect it , 
the teachers expect it , 
texas wants very badly to be considered tops in the school system 
and if you read national surveys , they 're far from it . 
and so there 's just a whole lot of testing and a whole lot of pushing to do well on these tests . 
how about the kids . 
how are they coping with it ? 
not very well . 
they bring home notes that say they have to get a good night 's sleep and eat right in the morning before , tests . 
they make a big deal . 
to me , the paper should just be put on the desk that day 
and say just do this . 
i just feel they do better that way . 
rather than anticipating . 
and i have older children too that now are out of high school 
and they 've always done this here . 
it 's always been the same 
but it 's getting worse and worse , 
is more pressure for everything . 
and i just think it 's really awful 
and i 'm with you on that . 
you do n't hear too many people say this , 
but i think it 's a very long day . 
it is . 
and my feeling is that you 're only a kid once , and you do n't want to spend your whole life in school . 
that 's right . 
my son came home 
and he said mom , all we do is work . 
we hardly ever play 
and i do n't think that 's right . 
i think we should do what europe does and include cultural activities in our school system . 
likewise . 
i do n't think i should have to pay for dancing lessons , gymnastics , piano . 
i would like to see those things included in our school system because i think we should have well-rounded kids not just book smart kids . 
would n't that be great . 
and so i just find this a real problem . 
i think if they 're going to be there all day , they should find time . 
one of my daughters , once , was out of school with mono in her junior year . 
and she had a home teacher for like four hours a week 
and when she went back in six weeks , she was ahead . 
so what does that tell you ? 
is that right ? 
it tells you there 's a whole lot of wasted time . 
and they could be using this time better . 
for example , in my son 's kindergarten . they 're really finished at lunch time . 
i 'm trying to think if they have recess after lunch , 
and then they have naps or rest period . 
and i think either send them home or do something a little more interesting . 
that 's a very long day for kindergartners . 
i agree . 
but i think that working parents have kind of demanded this . 
i would n't be surprised . 
because they do n't want to send them to daycare . 
i doubt if they would say it was too long . 
that 's why they want them there because them somebody takes care of them all day . 
do you have the before school care , at your school and the after school care ? 
capital punishment out in california has had a lot of , discourse in the paper . 
apparently they have n't , executed anybody since nineteen sixty-seven , i believe . 
that 's as far back as i can remember . 
that 's before my time actually . 
we lived in redwood city when we were out there . 
and we found that it was a very liberal kind of community . 
but i really feel that the law enforcement community puts these people behind bars 
and then these lawyer groups get together 
and they , extend beyond the normal appeal process . and just drag his , ultimate demise out for ten or fifteen years . 
and i think that there 's something that has to be changed in the system to do that . 
i think capital punishment was probably stringent enough 
but i think the appeal process is really getting in the way . 
do you feel as though there should be more , transgressions that would be enforceable by , capital punishment ? 
i think that currently the way the law stands , 
it 's more they 're not enforcing the death penalty itself . 
it 's at that point where they 're saying here you 're going on death row 
but you 'll stay there for twenty years . 
and nothing is being done about it . 
the laws exist and are frequently upheld in appeals court just because of technicalities and because of maybe small little holes that their defending attorney can find . 
and it 's really getting out of hand in many states . 
the law enforcement community has to separate the difference between somebody who is being set up in which grievous acts are done to get somebody into a situation where they 're going to be guilty of a crime . 
and whether the rights of that individual have been , impuned . 
or whether a policeman has just made a noncritical error , though be it not the right way to do it 
i 'm , at this juncture 
i 'm not sure what constitutes a technicality . 
that 's what all these hearings are about 
and that 's what all these court cases are about . 
our glorious mayor here in washington is six days away from getting out of the can 
and he tried to appeal his conviction . 
and it did n't work . 
but be that as it may , everybody who got enough money will pump the appeal process dry . 
in the old days and round about times of battle of hastings the villages if you were a transgressor they either drove you out in the woods 
or you became a ward of somebody 
and you were his slave . 
and if he did n't like what you did , he killed you . 
and that 's pretty effective . 
it 's not good for civil rights , i guess , 
but it 's pretty effective in that you 've got to get along in the community 
and if you do n't you 'll perish . either by the hand of your master or by being pushed out in the woods . 
as man has gotten more complicated so to protect him from being dumped on by civilian authority in criminal actions , especially murder cases and that sort of thing . 
it seems as if in the past typically there have been a lot of cases of people being wrongly tried or wrongly punished , 
and the whole idea behind the current criminal process system is to protect those who actually did n't , albeit it seems that we are failing in that ultimate goal because there are times when people who are guilty are getting off . 
for instance there 's a case a few years back where someone who was going to trial for murder , was let off because of a technicality in that . the arresting officer , did not read the defendant their rights . 
a lot of companies now are using drug testing paraphernalia and drug testing situations to root out the either elementary or intermediate or advanced drug users . 
and i know the government gives drug tests to all new applicants coming into government . 
and i quite frankly , do n't see anything wrong with it . 
i guess i 'm not a good civil libertarian . 
and i feel that if you 're a drug user you have a hidden agenda that 's difficult unless you really go into a deep background . 
being involved in my organization we have deep background checks 
but , sometimes drug use can escape that . 
and i have absolutely no compunction about using any and all means to , figure out who has a drug problem and putting that guy into therapy whatever it is to , break this activity . 
of course , if he 's fallen in love with drugs and there is n't anything but getting stoned or high is the only thing in life that seems to be meaningful , then maybe there is no hope . 
what 's your feeling ? 
i guess i 'm probably a little more toward the other direction . 
there 's two sides to it i guess . 
one is that if you 're coming to work under the influence of any sort of drug , alcohol , whatever , even if it 's smoking then i think that , i do n't have any problem at all with testing that individual on the spot . 
but i guess i feel more like whatever you 're doing in your own private life is your own private business . 
and i guess part of the reason there is because of the fact that things like drug laws seem to come and go . 
we had prohibition for awhile 
and then we did n't have prohibition . 
we 've had laws against various other forms of drugs for the last sixty or seventy years . 
maybe a little longer . 
i think the first morphine laws were nineteen ten or nineteen five , something like that . 
eighty years or so . 
it 's hard for me to justify what seems like basically a breach of the freedom from search and seizure , on something that may or may not stand as a law fifty years from now or even twenty or ten , 
who knows . 
the thing of it is that is in many respects just , an over simplification . 
prohibition certainly did n't last . 
i think there 's so much criminal activity that people go into to support drug habits . 
but you got to look at prohibition though . 
you had the same problems there ? 
they support drug habits with things like burglary or prostitution or stuff like that , 
it goes back to that , again , if you look at prohibition . 
because it 's illegal , it costs more . 
face it 
you can buy pharmaceutical grade cocaine for ten or twenty dollars an ounce . 
i must admit that , 
and clearly if you 're into coke and all you want to do is snort your brains out all day long , if it was legal , you could do it real cheap 
and you 'd be a menace to nobody but yourself as long as you stayed at home and did it . 
but 
i must admit that the production costs of these drugs are zippo compared to the street market costs and the costs to society , 
that 's why there 's people dealing it because there 's money in it . 
there 's ridiculous amounts of money . 
but i think that , being in law enforcement i probably have a kind of a draconian , philistine attitude toward it . 
interdiction 's hopeless . 
and then another one will jump up . 
there 's no way you 're ever going to win that . 
the tighter you squeeze , the more the price goes up , the more incentive there is . 
that 's a losing fight . 
if we can just destroy the market by destroying the demand 
but people want to , get stoned 
it goes back to what can society impose on people . 
can you force somebody to be a good productive citizen ? 
i do n't think you can . 
i was raised with being a very strong bible work ethic 
so i 'm one of these ten , twelve , fifteen , twenty hour a day type people . 
everybody ought to do their own share , . 
i do n't have any love lost for people who are on the public dole just because they 're too lazy to get a job or that kind of stuff . 
i guess it 's an easy one for me . 
i think there 's something seriously wrong , 
what is it that you are particularly upset about ? 
i think they 've lost their compass 
and i 'm not sure they know exactly what public education supposed to be for anymore . 
but i voted with my feet 
and my kids go to parochial school . 
what do you feel that your kids are getting in the parochial schools that they would n't get in the public school system ? 
one hundred percent of the customers care . 
that 's one thing . 
everybody cares about the education the kids are getting . 
and they take an relatively active part . 
if you 're sending two thousand dollars that way every year , you watch what goes on 
and you pay attention and participate 
and you can influence the way things are . 
so you 're saying that the taxpayer who also is really paying through the pocketbook for the education of the child may not be quite so conscious of the fact that they are paying the tuition for that child in the form of real estate or other taxes 
and , consequently , they 're not so motivated to get involved and make sure things happen the way they 'd like to see them happen ? 
the immediacy just is n't there . 
and , actually , i think this is a cultural problem . 
the problem with public education is really a problem with the culture . 
and , i guess my evidence for that is the school districts in places like california , for example , where only a minority of the taxpayers have children in school 
and you ca n't get a tax levy passed . 
people are reluctant to pass school tax levies even when the money is needed or would be well spent because they do n't have kids in the schools . 
i think that 's a loss of civic virtue and a loss of the cultural attitude that we used to have that education was first even if it was n't our kids . 
i think that 's the principal problem is that people no longer see it as their problem 
and there 's an immediate problem . 
it troubles me too that the priority seems to be with my particular purse strings rather than the public good 
and by definition , for some of us , at least , the public good includes having an educated populace and then idea that you can make a sound judgment with respect to small votes at the local level or bigger votes at the national level . 
it means that you 've got to be informed 
and you 've got to have a certain level of education to do the reading and the critical thinking involved to come up with a decision . 
i believe that the original idea of public education in the united states , which i guess was controversial at the time of the constitution . it barely made it . 
i think it was added afterwards . 
i think the principal was education for civic participation . 
the idea was that everybody should have an education so that they would be a better voter 
and you could n't pull the wool over their eyes . 
it has taken on a more profound , economic thrust . 
that 's exactly what i was going to say . 
now there seem to be really three reasons for education . 
one is education for civic duty . 
one is education for economic reasons . 
and one is education for civilization . 
i 'm glad that you added that one . 
i think that one 's significant . 
that 's what i used to think education was all about when i was a college professor 
and then i quit and got disabused of that notion . 
but the only thing people seem to agree on is that education is an economic enterprise to train people for jobs . 
and i 'm not sure that people in the education establishment really know what their purpose is . 
and i 'm really sad to say this , 
i never thought i would have 
but i really think that the educational establishment has become part of the problem . 
and that 's why i 'm sort of , reluctantly in favor of these choice programs . 
i agree with everything that you 've said so far 
and the sense that i get from public school teachers that i know is that they are very conscious of what they feel they should be doing 
and they are the three things that you mentioned . 
but they find that they are also being asked to do a bunch of other stuff which they think is only tangentially related 
kids too ? 
. . 
you laugh . 
how many , 
what ages ? . 
twenty-seven up . 
and we had five . 
you 've been through the fun part . 
and how about yourself ? 
i have a four and a half and a three . 
i 'm sure there 's a lot of differences in the way it 's done now and then . 
when mine were growing up , i did some traveling but not that extensively 
but i always just made it a point to spend about ten minutes with each one of them . 
so it was an hour . 
but whether it was going back and laying in bed with them and just shooting the breeze or whatever , telling them stories or reading to them . 
what was the age difference between the youngest and the oldest ? 
six years . 
so they were all real close ? 
that 's tough . 
that 's a lot of time . 
we look back and wonder how we did it . 
did you both work ? your wife too ? 
she never did . 
qualify that . 
she worked at home , i 'm sure . 
both my husband and i work 
and sometimes i feel like by the time i pick them up and get them home and get them fed , i have very little time each evening . 
maybe thirty minutes max . 
that 's plenty though . 
and he spends a lot of time with them while i 'm cooking 
and then i spend time with them while he 's doing other stuff . 
and , of course , we try to spend a lot of time on the weekend . 
there 's a lot of times my house may not be as clean as i particularly like it 
but it 's neat , 
it 's straight 
and i can live with it because i do stuff with my kids . 
with kids you 're not going to have a neat house . 
i 've accepted that too . 
and it 's tough to find time . especially with both of them working . 
that 's true . 
it is . 
that 's true . 
and you just have to set the time and say , this is going to be it . 
that 's true 
and we do a lot of that on the weekends . 
we try to spend saturdays together . 
if my husband golfs he 'll do it during nap time , 
things like that where they 're not really missing the presence . 
and we do a lot of family things together . 
we 're kind of going the other direction this weekend . 
we 're planning a trip , just he and i . 
this is the first time we 've gone anywhere without the kids since she was born four and a half years ago . 
that 's good too . 
that 's good that way too . 
i decided that you need that once in awhile . that , you need to plan the quality time 
and i do think that if you plan it and spend that and make it quality time you do n't have to be there twenty-four hours a day . 
they say all it takes is about five , ten minutes a day . 
and as the kids got older i made them help me cut the grass and kind of made that a project too . or whatever 
and they think that 's a family activity . 
that 's great fun . 
and 
my daughter 's mommy can i help you with the laundry ? 
of course , you can . 
just keep them talking that way . 
but another thing we used to do is have family councils . every sunday night . 
and what would you do , 
what ? 
discuss everything that did n't agree with them . 
and we 'd take turns being president . 
and everyone would get one vote . 
and i always thought we 'd get outvoted five to two 
but it never worked that way . 
so they would just pick whatever issue kind of was at a head that week 
and we could bring up stuff too . 
and then , 
and that was always good time . 
we really got to know the kids well . 
i imagine . 
and i imagine you still have a very close relationship with them . 
in fact , they were all in over the weekend for easter . 
that 's wonderful . 
i was raised in that type of family where you do n't disobey me , you mind me 
but if you have a problem with what we did or how we did it , you can always come back and talk to me about it . 
we did too . 
we had a friend of hers that used to drive us up a tree 
and she said , i do n't make , fun of your friends 
so why make fun of mine ? 
kind of hit us between the eyes . 
you do n't think of it that way do you . 
but that was always good quality time for us . 
that 's good . 
i like that idea . 
and then never attend , 
but if they missed it , they had to abide by the rules . 
whatever was voted on . 
and they 'd show up . 
i think that 's great . 
and we 'd usually take notes 
and the younger kids or maybe all of them needed help at one time or another . 
but they were usually tougher on themselves than they were on us . 
and they loved it . 
i think that 's true . 
i can remember times my parents would say what do you think would be a fair punishment . 
and we would always come up with something that was harder than what they would have done . 
so i do think it 's right that they 're harder on themselves . 
but i feel for you and your husband . 
why is that ? 
i 'm nevin from sunnyvale , california . 
this is jim bliss from minneapolis , minnesota . 
how you doing ? 
pretty good . 
i guess the topic is trial by jury and how we should change that or how we would change it . 
i 'm ready whenever you are . 
what are your thoughts on the subject there ? 
i definitely think decisions have to be unanimous . 
i think that 's probably a good thing . 
it 's probably the safest thing . 
it 's to easy to get a quorum 
and simple majority wo n't do . 
quorums are to easy to get . 
and there 's always that chance that one or two people could be playing devil 's advocate for a good reason . 
definitely 
but i do n't know . 
i could n't believe they suggested that judges should be doing the sentencing . 
gives them a little too much power . 
i know of a couple of people who would be arguing with that . or arguing against that pretty vehemently . 
plus you may be doing a guilty verdict 
but it may be for technical reasons . 
about the only good thing i would say about that is that it would , hurry the process up a bit 
but even now i know we 've got plenty of cases out there where people have been wrongly convicted and things like that 
if the judge was doing it himself , without any checks and balances who 's to say . 
there would be much more of that . 
no doubt . 
are you involved in the legal system at all ? 
but i tend to follow it just to know what 's going on . 
i 've got some friends that are lawyers 
i do too 
one of them just got his law degree . 
but to tell you the truth , i 'm not real familiar with the system of jurisprudence the way it is right now . 
i really have n't studied it in depth . 
it 's more in how you present it versus who 's right . 
i 'm sure of it . 
because a lot of those things , it 's largely a matter of viewpoint . and who can argue their case better . 
it 's kind of weird . 
i do n't know , 
i always think about watching the people 's court or something . and how weird those cases get . 
i know . 
when i was , a couple of years ago , involved in some pretrial stuff 
it 's pretty amazing . 
and it 's like the truth is n't really important anymore . 
this friend of mine 's pretty obnoxious 
and he really gets into suing people . 
and so he 'll sue just about anybody just for the chance to get into court , and argue his case , 
it 's wasting people 's time and the taxpayers ' money and everything else . 
that sounds like a little abuse of our system 
people do n't want to take responsibility . 
and most of the time they 're looking to place blame . and stuff . 
you 're from california , 
is that right ? 
originally from chicago 
i was just thinking 
i wonder how the civil system or the court system must differ between there and where i am in minneapolis . 
from what i understand , it 's all pretty the same except when you get to louisiana . 
and louisiana is completely different cause , it 's based on common law 
and the rest of the country is not or something like that . 
pretty strange . 
but fortunately i never have had to go in even for jury duty . 
but that friend of mine 's telling me that i might have to go in as a witness . 
he may subpoena me . 
so we 'll see what happens . 
i 'm not really sure how we could change the legal system to make it better . 
there are too many big problems . 
there 's such a backlog of court cases right now . 
i know . 
and we already have too many lawyers as it is . 
and if it 's criminal cases you ca n't put them in jail because there 's no room left . 
that 's true . 
and , in fact , they 're even letting some go . 
i 'm originally from florida 
and it seems like every year they let out more and more just cause they do n't have room for them . 
that 's not a good solution either . 
not at all . 
randall 
do you have any special interest in space flight ? 
ever since i was young and used to watch the old apollo missions going off in classroom t v -s . 
i suspect a lot of people got turned on by watching those go off . 
very exciting . 
i 've always , wanted very much to be somehow involved in all that . and to meet and to see it actually happen . 
of course , i 've really wanted to actually manage to get into space someday . 
but that seems rather unlikely at this point , unfortunately . 
what do you do now ? 
computer programmer . 
unfortunately , that can be done from the ground . 
to bad . 
made the wrong career choice to get up into space . 
i used to think when i was younger that by this time we 'd have lots more stuff in space than we do now . 
frustrating at times . 
i do n't know what you think about all that . 
i 'm kind of young . 
i 'm only twenty-two 
there 's a lot that 's happened in my lifetime as far as with the space shuttle and all . although plans to go to other planets have somewhat been thwarted in comparison to the sixties . 
if it were possible to market some , form of space technology to make it equitable , it might severely help the economy in the , respect that there 's endless amounts of research to be done . endless amounts of resources and whatnot , 
it would be great if we could find some way to , use that to boost the economy . 
i 've always felt that one of the long-term solutions would be to have some sort of solar power satellites up . 
because that 's a singularly renewable resource that does n't require , any particularly nasty environment impact . 
and you can just get as much power as you need up there . 
it 's just a matter of how big you build it . 
and , of course , the side effects of this is that you have to have lunar mining bases and space stations and easy transport into space and no things that i think we should be doing . 
so the side effects of doing that which i think would be good very , very good for everyone in the long run is some of the other things i 'd like to see happen would happen also , 
so you 're talking about positive side effects then . 
i understand . 
that makes a lot of sense . 
the only problem is , of course , that that requires significant commitment from people to actually decide they want to put things like that up there . 
and they want to do the research 
the only commitments that they 're interested in making or even talking about are ones for flash value like the trip to mars . which would produce some useful scientific research and so forth , 
but the same money could probably be far better spent on lunar bases and solar power satellite research and so forth . 
we should eventually send people to mars but not just because it 's glitzy to do so . 
we should do it for the return we get for it . 
and unfortunately , that 's not what i thinks happened . 
the downside of that is after you do one of those , people say we did it . 
now we 're done . 
now we 're done . 
no need to play around with this space stuff anymore . 
that 's what happened with apollo . 
but i 'd give almost anything to get into space . 
i think you 're right . 
i would too . 
was it john denver that tried to buy his way on to the space shuttle ? 
what do you think about capital punishment ? 
i 'm kind of in favor of it for certain crimes . 
which crimes do you feel that ? 
i think first degree murder probably warrants it . 
so many times it 's so brutal and just recurrent 
recurrent crimes like serial rapists or serial murderers or whatever . 
i originally come from the state that has , the death penalty . 
i come from florida . 
and they 're pretty liberal on it . 
go ahead . 
go ahead . 
texas is too . 
texas has had forty-six in the past several years . 
so they 're pretty hip on it too , i guess . 
they do it by lethal injection , at huntsville . 
i think florida still uses electric chair . 
i do n't know . 
in some ways i do n't like it because it 's like they 're playing god . 
i do n't think that 's right . 
but on the other hand , there 's a lot of advantages to it . 
i think crime rates deterred a little bit by using it 
and , of course , you have some savings in terms of taxpayer money keeping people in jail or not . 
with florida that 's a big problem because there 's so many people in jail that they have to let them out every year . 
that 's what 's happening here . 
in fact , a big gubernatorial issue is the turnover rates of repeat offenders being let out and doing it again . 
and it 's like that 's a big problem 
but there 's not a whole lot you can do about it because there 's only so many jails you can build 
and it gets to be a big problem . 
go ahead . 
i wish if they were going to do it , they would be a little more consistent in dealing with who gets lethal injection and who does n't . 
not being able to put it off for fifteen years . 
because a lot of these guys they get in 
and they get off for good behavior 
and , i do n't know , 
up in minnesota where i am now , they do n't have the death penalty . 
and you can almost sense that people are just laughing at the system because they figure i get thirty or forty years for maybe rape or something . 
if i elicit good behavior i 'm out in maybe five or ten . 
just because , like we said before , they do n't have enough room in the jails there 's a lot of incentive for them to be let out early . 
i do n't know , 
i think that may solve a lot of that . 
maybe not solve it , 
but , i do n't know , 
i tend to think the repeal system for the death penalty is a little too lenient . 
kind of takes away from the significance of the death penalty . 
what do you do georgeanne ? 
i 'm a graduate student at the university of texas in dallas . 
what program you in ? 
audiology . 
what do you do ? 
i 'm a doctoral student at the university of central florida . 
i 'm doing an internship up at honeywell . 
but i do n't know . 
it 's an interesting issue . 
like you say , in texas there 's been quite a few 
and in florida in the last few years , i think there 's been a lot . 
i ca n't give you figures 
this was in conjunction with the guy that was put in the gas chamber in california . 
is that right ? 
i 've heard things about that . 
i 've heard that they do n't mess around very much . 
they do n't get repealed as easily as they do . 
the guy in california got 
and then they said , 
you do n't have to go . 
and then they took him back . 
it just seemed a little inconsistent . 
that 's a lot of repeals . 
and then you have two , 
you have these people who are serial killers that did n't even get the death sentence back when ever . 
i do n't know . 
i 'm trying to think about other crimes that would warrant it . 
what 's the policy now with treason ? 
do they axe you for treason 
or is it a life sentence ? 
the military does n't execute anymore 
or death before the firing squad or whatever . 
so , i think about the only one is rape , 
how do you feel about it ? 
i do n't see any problem with testing for random drugs . 
i , myself , almost am in favor of it . 
i work at honeywell 
and i went through a , standard drug testing thing before i was brought on . 
i think that 's pretty standard . 
at least at honeywell it is . 
i think it 's important to insure the quality and , almost the goodness of character that kind of thing . 
where do you work ? 
i 'm a graduate student right now at carnegie mellon . 
and i just came from saint paul . interviewing with three m . 
and they have a policy for testing . 
if they make you an offer , then they 'll test you right before you start . 
and i guess the only drawback i can see to drug testing is in case you are on some sort of medication that might give some sort of false positive result then there could be some sort of problem . 
and that definitely happens . 
the drug tests they 're accurate 
but there 's always that margin of error . 
and that 's something to be aware of . 
another thing is , a lot of times they are n't that accurate . 
they are n't that sensitive . 
if you 're on a prescription drug of some kind what are they going to do about that . 
i was on a couple of different prescription drugs when i was tested for honeywell 
and i know they did n't catch that 
or else they would have said something . 
i 'm sure they screen for just a particular few types . 
although the literature they give with you says we do this 
and then they list about five thousand drugs they try to test for . 
i do n't know . 
what program are you in over at carnegie mellon ? 
electrical engineering . 
i 'm a graduate student at u c f in florida . university of central florida . 
and this is actually an internship up here . 
but even for interns they do the whole drug testing thing , 
they test you before you start or before you even interview 
they essentially , made me the offer and then , did the drug testing thing after that . 
so it was one of those things where you go through the general battery of all their tests 
and then , they essentially give you the offer 
and then at that point they 'll ask you to go to a drug testing and things like that . 
so there 's some noise on this end . 
i 'm actually in a mall calling 
you probably wondered . 
what happens if you were to fail ? 
then do they give you one more chance or two more chances ? 
that 's a good question . 
i believe from what i remember of the literature if you fail they give you one more chance . 
they probably give you a chance to explain yourself and then maybe give you another chance to go through it . 
but once again , those things are not that accurate 
so there 's undoubtedly a proportion of people who do fail . 
are you working right now anywhere 
i 'm just about to finish my master 's in may and just interviewing with companies right now . 
that was the first time i 'd ever gotten any kind of drug screening was going to honeywell . 
a friend of mine is also a doctoral student down there . 
and he 's doing an internship with i b m . 
and they , basically did the same exact thing . 
we both got our internships at the same time 
and we both had to go through drug testing at the same time . 
so , one of those things where we went through kind of an identical process . 
do they test you right now , at work too ? 
that 's one thing they do n't do is drug testing while you 're on the job . 
i think the unwritten rule is , expect it 
but they do n't do it . 
so . that 's good i guess . 
i do n't know . 
i have gone to a couple of parties since that time 
and while i do n't do any drugs myself , i 've seen some people who work there smoking a joint or whatever . 
and that 's the kind of thing that would definitely come up . 
but 
they do n't really do that . 
is it formal policy that they said they might test ? 
i 'm here . 
how do you feel about public schools ? 
our public schools are really poor , i feel . 
i 'm not sure where georgia ranks in the nation 
but we 're toward the bottom . 
and there 's a lot of things that i see that are so obviously wrong . that you would think it would be easy to correct . 
but the system does n't allow for the corrections . 
how about you ? 
that 's interesting . 
i have a sister who used to live in kennesaw , georgia . 
and she has a young boy . actually has two boys now but only had one when she was there . 
and she complained quite a bit about their school system there . 
and cobb county is better than the county i 'm in . 
she was in cobb county . 
i ca n't really say much about the schools up here . 
i really do n't come from here 
i 'm only up here temporarily on an internship 
but i live in orlando , florida usually . 
and the schools down there are not bad . 
they 're pretty good . 
that 's great . 
but i know in a lot of rural areas they 're not that good . 
for example , i have a brother in north carolina 
and he says the schools there are just terrible . 
i feel that we 're way behind . 
i have a son that is in the fourth grade 
and they have just now taken up division . 
that is slow . 
my husband and i go to the store 
and we buy these math books and fractions and multiplication , division things 
and i feel like there are several areas that we 're just really , really slow in . 
and i do n't blame the teachers as much as i blame the system . 
what do you think 's wrong to cause that ? 
for one thing there 's not enough money in the school system . 
and the money they do have , they do not use it wisely . 
my son 's teacher has twenty-seven students . 
and that certainly is a lot of students for one person to deal with on an every day basis . 
but more than that , i do n't think that they have the authority to command the attention of the children . 
and when you have two kids in that class that constantly keeps the class in an uproar and you 're not at liberty to do something about it , other than give them on campus isolation or send them to the principal 's office . it can really be bad . 
that 's one thing i worry about . 
also i think , we have a lot of hispanics 
there you go , 
the county i 'm in , the minorities are mostly hispanic . 
probably quite a few black people up there 
we 're from the county they marched in . 
we 're in forsyth county 
is that right ? 
and there 's very , very few blacks . 
it 's not a problem because i hate to feel like they are a problem , although they are . 
you do n't want to seem racist or prejudice or whatever , 
but then again . 
but it is a problem . especially in the inner city . 
there is no denying that , 
. 
you have to admit that teachers have to slow things down for people who do n't understand , especially if there 's not a very well developed special education program at the school . 
and you ca n't put all the children in special education . 
that 's right , 
you ca n't do that . 
i grew up in nebraska 
and the school that i went to there was fantastic . 
i really consider myself very , very lucky . 
we had a school that had classes probably about the same size you 're talking , twenty-seven , thirty kids to a class . 
but your teacher had control . 
we zipped right along . 
i was doing mathematics , fractions and division and multiplication by the third grade , easily . 
i believe i was too . 
but , you 're right . 
with all this , do n't hurt the kids and do n't abuse their rights , you 've also taken something away from the discipline , i think . 
it really is a concern of mine because if we could afford it , my son would be in private school . 
we just can not afford it . 
i was going to ask you if that was an option . 
you want to go first ? . 
you can start . 
one of the things they talked about was what do we think about a judge making the decision ? 
and i really do n't agree with that . 
i think that the trial by jury is better having a unanimous decision rather than to have one person be responsible . 
i do n't think that they could be objective in every case , every time . 
you know what i mean ? 
this topic is kind of mute . 
there 's no way . 
we could n't survive in a trial system without a jury . 
one man , one woman can never be objectionable in every case . 
that 's it . 
every person has their opinions 
and that 's why jury selection is often very difficult . . 
i feel the other thing too , 
they were saying what new ways could it , change the system . 
i really think that we spend a lot of time going through appeal after appeal after appeal after appeal , 
if you go to a trial by jury and especially if a person has confessed . if they have been caught point blank in the crime . there 's no question 
it 's beyond a reasonable doubt . 
all these things . 
we 've gone through this over and over again . 
they should n't allow an appeal . 
and it can go on for ten , twenty , years . 
i think this is a little ridiculous . 
i think the only people who benefit from that are the lawyers . 
that 's right . 
i work for a law firm . 
i 'm serious . 
and i think that the lawyers have caused a lot of the problems that exist in the criminal system today . with plea bargaining . 
plea bargaining is a different story . 
plea bargaining is something completely different . 
that actually prevents trials . or at least speeds them up . 
i know . 
that 's what i 'm saying . 
but i think all of the whole criminal system is messed up in that regard . 
i do n't know how it works exactly 
but they get lesser sentences 
and i understand that the jails are full of people and that they have to do something . 
but , i think that the reason they are full is because they know that they can get away with it . 
you know what i 'm saying ? 
that a lot of states do n't have capital punishment . 
and i think they should . 
we do . 
they 're caught dead to rights . 
i just think that they 've taken a life 
and they should pay for it with their life . 
when you 're saying as far as the appeal procedure was concerned . 
we just have the case , 
i 'm sure you 've probably heard of marion berry . 
his last appeal was denied two days before his sentence was up . 
so his appeal was denied 
and two days later he got out of jail . for cocaine possession . 
but that was absurd . 
there was no reason the appeal process should have dragged on that long for a six month sentence . 
and , i do n't know . 
what would you do to change it ? to make it better ? 
the , appeal procedure is the only thing i can possibly think of . 
like i said , as far as removing of the jury and having the judge sentence , that 's absurd . 
there 's no way that could work . 
i do n't agree with that at all . 
imagine the guilt that person would have . 
there 's no possible way that you could feel good about yourself . 
if you had to do something like that , day after day . 
no one would want the job . 
not really . 
and like i said , everyone has their opinions about every case . 
do you think people should have a trial is they 're caught dead to rights , 
i feel that everyone is , entitled to a trial by jury . 
supposing i come up to you and i just point blank kill you . 
were there witnesses ? 
in other words you 're saying that , you have to find out whether it 's premeditated or what the circumstances were . 
that you ca n't remove the jury regardless of the case . 
you could have fifty people in audience watching a murder take place 
and there 's still mitigating circumstances . 
when you 're with a big company or a big organization , a lot of times the benefits are good 
and , the pay is regular 
but sometimes you do n't get tuned in to what 's going on . 
and i think the biggest benefit or the biggest benefit other than wages that anybody could get in dealing with a large company is to be in a situation where you get to know what 's going on . 
and maybe that 's probably the toughest thing in the whole world to do . 
what 's your feeling about benefits ? 
what sort of benefits would you like to get from a big company . 
since i 'm kind of on the older side , i just feel like when i start talking about benefits , i 'm concerned about medical benefits . 
my husband works for mcdonald douglas 
and so his medical benefits are so excellent , 
that 's really great . 
i work for a bank , western financial . 
and they do n't let me know really about anything that 's going on . 
even some of the immediate things that i need to know , i do n't know it until the next hour 
and all of a sudden we know we 've got changes made . 
we 're changing departments . 
we 're changing policies . 
we 're changing doing other kinds of things . which to me is disturbing . 
you are right there . 
i 'm pretty much on a low level as far as the company is concerned . 
but i do kind of like to know what 's going on and what 's happening 
and i think i can be a better and more effective employee if i had a little bit more information along that line . 
i work for the government 
and actually i work for the f b i . 
and so , there 's lots of things that we do n't get told . for good reason . 
but basically there 's lots of things that we should know about projects . 
i 'm an engineer . 
i 'm a cotr . 
and i worked in the same lab with a guy 
and we did n't really know that much about each other 's projects for two years . 
and we should have , , 
we 're now collaborating . 
for two years we did n't . which was kind of stupid . 
but our organization is doing something else on monday . 
for all unclassified programs , we 're having little tables put up in front of mumblex lab in the hallways 
and all the other employees are going to come around and see what sort of things we do . which i thought was kind of interesting . 
that is interesting . 
but , i think you can tolerate a lot of problems if you understand what 's going on . 
but of course most of the time management has a hard time distributing or getting the word out to the people who must know . 
and if you do n't really count . if you 're not part of the program you might not get told for months . 
but regard to benefits most big organizations have decent benefits like retirement and that sort of thing . 
in the private sector i would think that one of the major situations , especially when you reach the mid-fifties , is keeping a job until you retire . 
and engineers are baggage as they get older , to most companies . 
and it 's very much like the military , 
it windows out . 
you think i 'm getting more money 
and i 'm getting more responsibility , 
i 'm doing this . 
but as you climb up that tree , pretty soon the branches get smaller on the top of the tree 
and pretty soon somebody falls off . 
i 've fallen off twice in the private sector . 
and , i can get up , 
i know . 
my son 's eighteen right now 
and he wants to go into engineering . 
and the branches of engineering that he wants to go into is now kind of open 
and he 's interested in , basically , three different areas . 
but it 's difficult for me to try to give him any kind of advice or to advise him or anything like that . 
he needs to do his own course of investigation and see what he can do because who knows what 's going to happen in another thirty years . 
and in thirty years it becomes pretty critical . 
my brother-in-law he 's sixty . 
he 's not ready to retire 
but his company is , closing up . 
and because of the defense cutbacks and all that kind of stuff . and all the nuclear and stuff which is what he was working on . he 's getting cut back 
and he 's not ready to retire . 
he may be retired . 
i guess by what you said you do n't feel your privacy has been invaded anytime recently ? 
not really . 
the only thing that annoys me is when people call and you have solicitation calls . 
that 's the only thing that bothers me . 
that 's not really invading my privacy . 
do you feel that yours is invaded ? 
i would n't call it invading my privacy by any means . 
there 's a lot of times though you get those calls when you 're sitting at home wanting to relax or whatnot 
and next thing you know someone calls and wants to sell you this or that 
and it 's real hard to tell them that you 're not interested . 
or you do tell them you 're not interested 
and they still keep asking you and keep badgering you about it , 
and that aggravates me . 
but i do n't know that you could call that invading my privacy 
but that does n't work . 
it does n't ? 
because a lot of times they dial sequentially . 
they get your name from if you enter any type of contest or anything . 
you enter a sweepstake in the local department store for a shopping spree or something , 
you put your phone number on there , 
they pass your phone number on to another company . 
or the newspapers , they just dial randomly and stuff . 
the newspapers here even call people who already subscribe . 
you call me one more time , i 'm going to stop subscribing . 
and the local papers mumblex ask them to remove your number from their list 
you call up during regular hours 
they have a special department , 
they 'll take your numbers out of their lists . 
but the orlando paper they refused to take it off of the lists 
and they call every month . 
and when you have more than one phone number , you get a call on each number you have . 
let me ask you about this . 
here 's something that has been kind of concerning me lately . 
my fiance received a bill from a lord and taylor company , 
they 're a department store . 
and i think it was there in florida , 
maybe it was in miami . 
that she had visited a store there 
and they had this bill that she had bought such and such amount of merchandise over two hundred dollars worth of merchandise . 
and the date that she supposedly made this purchase , she was in denver with me for thanksgiving . 
and apparently what had happened is someone used her social security number . 
they use joe blow 's social security number and can potentially ruin someone 's credit . 
if you know a person 's social security number and their mailing address , and their mother 's maiden name you can , basically , become that person . 
if the purchase was made mail order , they should have a record of where it was shipped to 
and since it was n't shipped to her address , she could prove that it was n't her . 
if it was some coming into the store and stuff , then whoever made the purchase would have had find some kind of document 
they should be able to provide you a copy with that signature 
and if they ca n't provide a signature they 'll have to eat the charge . 
because she wo n't be able to cash checks because most places verify through there . 
she probably wo n't be able to open a checking account or anything without a lot of hassle . 
we got it cleared up eventually . 
what happened , 
i 'm of the age that could have gone , although i did n't 
and looking back on it , i tend to think it was mostly a mistake . 
on the other hand the more i learn about the history , the more i see it was incremental decisions . any one of which was sort of understandable at the time . 
but on the whole i think it probably was the wrong thing to do . 
how about you ? 
i was just in high school when it ended . 
i was in the last lottery . 
and i was glad it was over by then . 
i 've never really totally understood what our purpose was over there . 
just because we did n't really do anything when we went over it seems like . 
i work with several that were over there , 
and for some of them it was just kind of not so much a holiday , 
i guess that 's how they tend to talk about it . 
but that they just kind of lived out in the woods 
and ever now and then , they 'd go and shoot their rifles 
and then they 'd , come back 
but that they were n't really allowed to do anything . 
to me it seems like we only went halfway . if even halfway . 
it 's funny . 
tonight i was helping my kid with an essay on stalin . 
and i was thinking in the course of talking to him about it , how in world war two , the personalties of stalin , hitler and churchill more or less defined the war 
and actually when you think back on the big events of the war it was almost a personal struggle among these three , 
i guess you 'd have to call them great men in some sense . 
they 're certainly all leaders 
and , with their nations pretty solidly behind each one of them . 
and i got a feeling that some of that was involved in the early decisions of the vietnam war . that the people saw the cold war as you had to draw a line and defend it . 
otherwise they 'd get you someplace else . 
looking back , it seems like that was only partly true . that there might have been a better place to draw the line . 
i guess you can say that a certain amount of resolve and willingness to fight brought the cold war to an end . 
but i do n't think you can just fight anywhere just in order to call the bully out and beat him . 
and i have a feeling that that 's part of what was involved in the vietnamese war . 
they felt like this was a place where we could draw a line , beat them and they would n't come forward . 
and we were wrong . 
like i said , the more i hear about it , the more i can see each decision that was made as being understandable . 
and as you say going halfway was probably worse than committing to and winning it , whatever that would mean . 
i think we did learn some lessons that we were n't prepared for , 
i guess the best word would be the atrocities of war . 
the other wars seemed like a valiant war . 
they seemed like a valiant thing . 
you knew who was good . 
you knew who was bad . 
and it was a traditional battle of , kind of good versus evil , if you know whichever way it is . 
the sides and the lines that were drawn are all confused as to who 's good and who 's bad 
it 's ambivalent , 
had the south vietnamese , the north vietnamese and the laotians 
and the cambodians were n't even supposed to be involved . 
what about the domestic effects 
i was thinking that maybe the most important effect it had was to make it possible and even popular to criticize the government . 
that pendulum started to swing maybe even too far . to the point where supporting a government decision in foreign policy was sort of optional from the vietnam war on . 
it 's dying now , 
this desert storm stuff may have killed it . 
generally i get most of my news in the weekly magazines like time , newsweek and , u s news and world report . with occasional smatterings of , the wall street journal and , of course , the local paper . 
but my only complaint is i really do n't . 
so that 's why i concentrate on weekly magazines . 
do you think that the weekly magazines provide you with as much detail information as you 'd like ? 
i do n't think i have the time to really become a student in every article . 
and so i like the weekly magazines because it gives me the high points of what 's going on . 
but many times the local news kind of suffers . 
but here i am cheek by jowl with our nation 's capital 
that 's right . 
you 're very close actually . 
it 's almost a bedroom community for the capital . 
when the capital gang always talk about the people inside the beltway , i 'm saying to myself , guys , i 'm inside the beltway . 
but it turns out that the c n n is great . 
and for things like hurricanes and fast breaking events 
but generally , they 're more sound bitish kind of thing 
and i do n't really feel as though i 've gotten sufficient dose of news that way . 
a lot of my information comes from several sources . 
probably pretty high up on the list is national public radio . which i like . 
i think it 's fairly objective 
and i always like the letters that they read which tend to accuse them of being too liberal and too conservative . 
and while there 's an inherent filtering process going on just by the letters they choose to read i always figure it 's a good thing when any given group is being accused by each side of favoring the other side . 
that 's potential indication of balance . 
and , generally , i really do believe they are pretty balanced . 
i also read time magazine 
and we get one of the daily newspapers around here where we go through various sections of the articles and the front section 
the mercury and the chronicle are the only things that up there . 
did you use to live around here ? 
redwood city . 
i use to work at anteks . 
i know exactly where that is . 
anteks , amdahl and places like that . 
we get the mercury which i generally think is actually a pretty good newspaper . 
the los angeles times . which i 've found to be a very good quality newspaper 
and i like a lot of the articles there . 
we do n't have cable t v , 
but the other thing that you referred to that always sounds really interesting to me is called c span . 
we have both c spans here . 
both ? 
if i watch any news program , it will be macneil lehrer . and occasionally c span . 
i saw the tapes that were run of marion berry 's drug bust 
the whole thing was run on that 
and also , they have the , parliament 's question and answer period . 
i never say that . 
that would have been interesting . 
it , 
i think that 's always fascinating . 
i think it was , somebody was just ripping the hell out of another person . 
and everybody was making noise in the background . 
but it 's usually the prime minister ? 
here 's this dude in a wig 
thatcher , 
major . 
and i said to myself , it 's another monty python that i did n't know about . 
and then up jumps margaret thatcher off her green bench 
and i said it 's parliament . 
which could be another of monty python . 
so i thought to myself , i ca n't wait . 
i 'm going over to britain in mid-may . 
this is how i discovered the prime minister 's question and answer period . 
i have seen that 
and aside from the level of wit which is much higher than , generally , in american politics which i really enjoy . i really like the fact that they have a chance to ask hard , real questions i think . 
budgeting activity in our household is , kind of an informal kind of situation . 
actually what happens is , my check gets automatically deposited . 
i do n't even have the glories of bringing home my check anymore . 
it just gets deposited . 
and my wife looks at all those bills that come in 
and all those people are counting on me to have my wife pay them , 
we really do n't have a formal budgeting situation . 
every time i 've ever tried one i 've just got wrapped in my inertia . 
and i 've just decided not to pursue it . 
what 's your budget situation ? 
actually i 've had a couple of different situations . 
my current one has been the most successful . 
an- , my ex-husband was an alcoholic . 
and we got divorced back in the mid-seventies 
and that left me with three teenagers . 
actually that kind of situation is just wonderful for budgets . is n't it ? 
it certainly is . 
but at any rate , what happened was that i just absolutely put away all the credit cards . 
i did n't rip them up . 
i did n't send them back . 
nothing . 
i just put them away . 
because there was one that it was really handy to have . 
if i absolutely had to have something , i could go use it . 
but mostly we just spent cash . whatever we had . 
and if we did n't have it , we absolutely did n't spend it . 
my parents came through the depression . 
i 'm not sure how old you are . 
my parents too . 
you were born in the late thirties or early forties . 
late thirties , 
and my mother hardly ever spent anything on herself or on the house . 
and that 's kind of the way i was raised . 
and so i 'm not a very demanding person in that aspect . 
for quite a period of time , i just flat did n't spend any money . 
now , meanwhile , i had a building bank balance . 
and my intent was that whenever something went on sale that i really had to have , i would have the cash to buy it right then and there . and not ever have to spend any money on interest . 
that 's good . 
and that 's the way i 've operated ever since then . 
and if something goes on sale and i do n't have the money , i still do n't buy it . 
we just got through buying a twenty-five foot refrigerator , a new ceramic top stove , and a new dishwasher . 
and we put twenty-eight hundred dollars on the charge . along with my trip to japan which was fourteen or fifteen hundred dollars 
we got a monster bill coming in . 
but we also have zero interest being paid . 
and we pay it off as it goes . 
and that 's the way i do my credit cards now . 
so we never really get that much over extended . 
i do almost all my purchasing on credit cards . 
but it 's the fact that i have enough of a cushion in the bank so that when they come , i can pay them in full . 
we 're doing that . 
we did redecorating . 
two new pieces in the family room and new carpet . 
we 've just been spending , spending , spending . 
i 'm envious . 
but we have n't really done anything for a long time because we 've had two kids in college that just have graduated in the past year . 
we do n't have that . 
it 's time for you to do these things then . ? 
it 's about time that we did that . 
but , the terrible part about it . i 've looked at it all 
and it all looks still pretty good to me . 
why ? 
that rug is thirteen years old , 
why not replace it . 
i say it might go for another thirteen 
but too late , 
we 'll never find that out . 
this is so funny . 
that 's wonderful . 
but you 're lucky to have her because if you 're like me and you have difficulty spending money , you need somebody to help you spend it . 
certain things really do need to be done whether or not you think they should , be or not . 
i do n't spend that much money . 
we sort of take care of the kids when they were 
and they got through school . 
and that was the major decade of expenses . 
but as far as any formal budgeting we just apparently have been very fortunate . 
when we want to go out to eat , we go out to eat . 
we never really have to program money for that or make choices . 
but we do n't have that uproarious a lifestyle . 
i have n't had an awful lot of incidents regarding child care . 
when my two year old was in new orleans , she got bit on the cheek 
but , that 's about the extent of it . 
i really am concerned that so many of these child care places are coming under investigation for , child molestation . 
and i 'm saying to myself , you dump your little turnip off to this child care place 
and they do n't pay very much 
and why would they be interested in your little turnip unless one of the motivations in the hidden agenda is that 's somebody to molest . 
and that 's a terrible kind of thing 
and i do n't think my children have ever been subject to that 
but my wife did n't work 
and so we really did n't have that much exposure to it . 
i am a working mother . 
i have three children 
i 've had various different alternatives , child care arrangements 
and like most working mothers i 'm really not defensive about it . 
i personally feel in our particular situation , i 'm a much better mother when i work out of the home 
and my kids are very secure , well raised children . 
my comment on this is that we paid an absolute fortune over the years for a variety of opportunities . 
it is a problem . 
but as you pointed out , i think the real problem is the low pay child facilities 
that is all they can afford . 
when our children were very young , we had a live in paid baby-sitter that was wonderful . 
and then as they got older , they went to schools 
and they were really all day preschools 
and they were wonderful . 
and i think they got exposed to a lot of neat things . 
that 's interesting . 
but we really truly did pay a fortune . 
we were paying at one point about five hundred dollars a week for two children . 
you must have just one hero ace professional job to support something like that . 
i 'm a physician . as is my husband . 
and i felt very good about working . 
i 'm a pediatrician actually . 
but i think there are some wonderful child care opportunities out there for children 
and we all know the kind of things that you 're supposed to look for . i think , 
not all of us . 
you know the kind of things you 're supposed to look for . 
i 'm an engineer . 
i think it 's real important that you have a place that , first of all parents have a lot of input into and that they 're always welcome and that they have a lot of activities where parents come in during the day and that at any time you can drop in . 
and we had a really wonderful arrangement , 
i 'm with the university actually 
and they had a wonderful program that started at age three 
and it was about a block away from the hospital where i work . 
and so , many times , at lunchtime , i would go over and visit the children and eat with them and see what they were doing . 
they had things like gardens and lots of pets 
and they had a four to one teacher student ratio . 
most of the teachers had degrees . 
five hundred dollars a week . for two kids . 
that 's incredible . 
it was incredible actually . 
but it was good . 
at that time there were two children 
and they were in special programs 
and each one was a little over two hundred a week 
and then , in addition , i paid a little bit extra . 
they really had some great opportunities . 
sometimes they do put them in fairly low paying situations . 
somebody will have a job at three hundred a week to get off welfare 
and that 's a good starting wage 
but three hundred dollars a week does n't go very far on child care . 
my youngest child is eight . 
so it 's been a little while since i 've looked into , actually daycare centers . 
the good ones do cost maybe sixty dollars a week since . 
we used to pay fifty cents an hour to baby-sit . 
but mine are twenty-two , twenty-three and twenty-seven 
i guess baby-sitters now are up at five dollars an hour ? 
something like that . 
but you made the comment earlier , why would someone be interested in children . 
there have been some good entrepreneurial type experiences . 
and i think they have captured a certain market . 
but then there are baby-sitting groups . 
as a pediatrician , one of the things we 've been real concerned about is the infections . 
i guess you 're probably in the same situation we 're in . 
we 're kind of past having to provide child care . 
our kids are grown up . 
we do n't have any grandchildren yet . 
how old are your children ? 
one 's twenty-six 
and the other is twenty-one . 
so they 're getting there . 
they 're going to be getting there . 
there 's no prospects right away for anything to happen . 
i see . 
i have five children . 
i have a eighteen year old son . 
the rest of my girls are twenty-three , twenty-six , twenty-eight , and twenty-nine . 
and i have three granddaughters right now . 
one 's in iowa . 
and she 's a teacher 
and what she does is she , teaches at a preschool . 
and they let her bring her little daughter in for free . 
but she just works part-time . 
then i have another daughter in bountiful , utah 
and she has to work full-time 
and it 's just tearing her apart . 
she has a private baby-sitter . 
and the baby just screams . 
the baby is seventeen months 
and she just screams . 
even if she knows that they 're fixing to get ready to go over there . 
they 're not even there yet . 
it 's hard . 
and then i have a seven month old granddaughter 
and her mother stays home 
and they live with us as orange county is really expensive . 
they live with us 
and so , of course , we love it . because we get to see this cute little baby all the time . 
she used to work in the preschool and child care 
and , here she was a provider 
but there 's only so much one person can do . 
she said it 's so awful . 
she said she 'll never put her child in a preschool . 
i 'm sure there must be some good ones around here somewhere . 
but it 's really very difficult 
what did you do when your kids were growing up ? 
the first ten or twelve years , i stayed home . 
and then after that i went to work . 
then i had one job 
and then that job ran out because it was kind of a government seeded type job . 
and then later i tried to get the baby to a baby-sitter . 
supposed to be good recommended person from the church 
and i knew her personally . 
she had two kids of her own and everything . 
but i quit my job because i could n't stand how she was taking care of my child . 
first of all her children were sick all the time . 
so when my son stayed over there , he got sick . 
he got sick , 
same thing that her kids had ? 
and so we did n't take her over there until about eleven o'clock . 
then she 'd take my son and her daughter over to kindergarten . 
that day i was saying he 's sick . 
and she goes , he has the same thing that all my kids have . 
that 's what he got . 
goes , , 
so it 's not like he 's going to infect her kids . 
but then what happened is , i said , he just threw up 
and kindergarten starts at eleven thirty 
so she said she 'll keep him home 
and he 'll probably just sleep anyway . 
you know , what 
that woman sent him to kindergarten . 
she sent him to kindergarten . 
as soon as he went there , the teacher took one look at him 
and he threw up again 
and they put him in the nurse 's office . 
guess so , 
and then what happened is , they gave her a call because they knew that she was my baby-sitter . 
called her 
and they said that he 's sick . 
she was n't home . 
all her kids were sick 
but she was n't home . 
and her daughter that was in kindergarten with him also did not go to school because she was sick . 
why did n't she keep him home with her ? 
she did n't do that . 
so , it got to the point where he 's supposed to get out of kindergarten about two thirty . 
and i had to leave work . 
it was five o'clock in the evening 
and i found out he was still there at school . 
and they were calling me 
and they said somebody 's got to pick him up . 
and i kept thinking that she was going to pick him up because she only lives two blocks away from the school . 
i was trying to get my husband to come and pick him up and all that kind of stuff . 
and he had a hundred and four fever . 
they could n't give him anything because they 're not allowed to at school and everything . 
i was so furious . 
i quit that job 
and i stayed home for awhile longer . 
then i went and got a job in real estate where i can kind of adjust my time a little bit better . 
a little more flexibility . 
you can come and go . 
but i have n't had any really very good experience with child care . 
when our kids were small we had a couple of good women who would often get them to come to the house . 
i 'll let you start , i guess . 
i 'm employed by a company that does do random drug testing 
and i 've got some very definite opinions about it . which have n't changed all that much from my first reactions from when they announced it . but developed a little more , but have n't changed that much . 
what about you ? 
are you involved at all ? 
i 'm not , 
a few years after i had started with them they made it a condition of employment that you pass a drug test . 
i do n't know . 
my feeling is that when there 's immediate threat to life and limb should somebody be under the influence of drugs , i 'd be willing to support that . 
for example train engineers . 
he crashed and killed some people because he was smoking some marijuana 
and i guess air traffic controllers . i would n't want them to be on drugs . and airplane pilots . 
but where it 's not necessary in that regard , where it 's not an immediate threat to life and limb or property i would seriously question it . 
that 's mine . 
i go back , 
it 's not , 
the constitution does n't apply . 
but it seems to me that it still should . 
our company 's doing it because they 're a government contractor . 
and so some form of drug program is required to get the government contracts 
so it 's the government that 's mandating it to a certain extent ? . 
and our company has taken that and gone all the way . 
first off we do n't have enough courage to pick out the people that have some sort of indication of possible drug usage because that would offend them if they were n't . 
so we 'll just accuse everybody of using drugs and , make it all even . 
and , 
then 
so it 's , a complete random testing 
it 's random in the sense that you do n't know when . 
it is not random in the sense that they have said that within three years everyone in the company will be tested . 
and i sit at a terminal and write software all day . 
it , certainly has no life threatening capabilities in my job . 
and , 
i agree that there are , jobs that are definitely life threatening 
and there needs to be a line drawn somewhere reasonable and proper . 
i agree . 
there was a high error rate in the analysis of drug results . 
or , i should n't say high 
i mean several percent . 
that i will give credit to our company for in that , i think there 's a couple of levels of tests in terms of drugs . 
it 's not quite that simple , 
but it 's fairly simple . 
kind of a coarse kind of test . 
coarse kind of test . 
and then there 's a much more refined test spectrography or whatever it 's called . the chemotography , to determine exactly what the things are . 
now let me ask you this . 
i 've been with this company for sixteen years now . 
so this is obviously not a condition of employment that you subject yourself to this . 
they did that three or four years before they did it with everybody . 
and at that time i could justify it in terms of someone new coming in , you do n't know . 
are you in the middle of anything ? 
i 'm not in the middle of anything . 
about the last thing i did 
about maybe close to a year ago now i helped my dad add on another bedroom on to his house . 
the whole thing ? 
that was fairly large undertaking . 
it 's a bedroom and a walk-in closet and a bathroom all on one side of the house . 
did the framing and all ? 
we did it all except for the sheetrocking . 
we were n't sure how to do that 
maybe you and i should get together . because when i had my last big project , i had the contractor do the framing 
and i did all the sheetrocking and the interior work . 
that 's the exact opposite . 
we put the roof up and did all the roofing and put all the interior walls up . 
we just did n't do any of the sheetrock wall work 
and that 's it because you have 
we did n't know a thing about any of that 
my wife wishes i had n't done that . 
it looked very hard to do 
i did n't think we could do it and make it look professional . 
so , we left it to somebody who does it for a living . 
i think it takes about three or four times before it gets easy . 
probably so 
and we 'd never done it 
so we just left it alone . 
i guess , 
i 'm only twenty-one 
so my vast experience of home owner 's knowledge is not very much . 
so it 's just what i have to do , more or less , around the house for my parents 
you framed in new square footage 
or was it stuff that was already enclosed ? 
it was brand new . 
brand new 
we started with the backyard and turned it into part of the house 
and you knew how to do the framing ? 
my dad knew how to do most of it . 
we 'd gotten a couple of books 
and then he just started doing it . 
i do n't know . 
he did all the flooring himself . 
he put the whole floor in 
and then i just started with the walls and the roof and started there . 
after we had the house part made , we just decided we 'd carry the roof out a little bit farther and put a carport more or less . 
it 's not enclosed . 
it 's just somewhere to drive another car to park 
do you build on slabs down there 
or did you build it up off the ground ? 
it 's off the ground . 
on the piers ? 
it 's on about twenty-two inch piers , something like that . 
you had those poured 
or you did them yourself ? 
we did those ourselves 
you just put forms in the ground and fill them with concrete ? 
the last thing i did completely myself was an outside deck which i was pretty proud of . 
i 've done one , 
i helped somebody do one of those before . 
you can buy them in kits 
but we did n't do that way . 
i designed it from scratch and did it 
did a pretty good job . 
those are nice . 
they 're pretty forgiving . 
you can always tear stuff out and redo it . 
that 's not near , like building a house or anything 
those are nice . 
especially when you get done , you 've got something . 
i do n't know , 
i like them . 
you just sit down on the deck and do whatever . have a barbecue 
i built it two levels and with a big toy box and some benches and a backrest and all that stuff . 
that sounds nice . 
all done by yourself , 
i had a friend with a tractor who dug the pier holes 
so we could pour concrete and support it with a nice firm four by four posts . 
and then the rest of it i just did . 
a contractor friend helped me with some of the foundation work 
it was about four or five hundred square feet . 
the same size as the addition that i just put on 
that 's a good size deck . 
so . 
it 's not that expensive . 
i think it cost me three dollars a square foot and no less than that . 
cost me about five hundred dollars , six hundred dollars all together . 
that 's good . 
that 's not bad at all . 
it got surprising as to the fact that how much wood is . 
i do n't know about dallas , 
but even in this little town , it 's not cheap at all . 
i was surprised . 
i 'd be surprised if it was n't cheaper where you are . 
it 's probably more there . 
it probably comes from where you are . 
it probably does . 
i 'm not sure 
when i drive through that area , that 's all i see is pressure treated lumber yards . 
it 's nothing but woods down here . 
i used to live in dallas . in arlington , actually . 
but that was just when i was a kid 
so i do n't really know what the cost of living is even like in dallas anymore . 
but i do n't know , 
we 're a college town 
so that does n't help us out any . 
east texas . 
gas is a dollar twelve a gallon , 
so that 's probably about what you 're paying 
my current project is a walkway which i 'm building around the house and out to the backyard digging it out and laying sand and putting pavers on top of that 
that 's a lot easier . 
you 've got something going all the time . 
with regard to jury trials . i really feel as though whatever system has been used historically is really the only kinds of things that you can use . because the jurisprudence is based on accumulated body of law . 
and if you have a situation where you change that body of law , then all of sudden they could start going back and digging up all these cases that would be handled differently were they judged by today 's standards . 
so i really do n't think they can really do much of anything to change it . 
what do you think ? . 
i do n't think so . 
just for example , what we 're seeing in california i guess . 
it makes you wonder had the jury been a different group of people what would have happened with that outcome . 
maybe they used a little bit too much force with stuff like that 
but then the defense lawyer addressed each and every one of those blows apparently 
and the other two guys sat in the car 
that 's bad . 
and they did n't get beat up . 
rodney got beat up because he involved himself in some self-destructive behavior . 
everybody says this is the nineties 
and they 're going to rebuild 
and it 'll be even better . 
what do you think , 
some black guy with capital is going to come in and invest in that area ? 
that 's right . 
with everybody with that mind set . that whole area is going to be turned into residential ghetto , 
they 're only going to suffer . 
and you might even be able to use it for a bombing test site . 
they 're only going to suffer . 
they 've defeated themselves with their looting and violence . 
i understand why they were upset by the verdict just because even those of us that are n't black or do n't live there or whatever , we all saw the same thing on the tape 
everybody is saying this is going to be a new era 
and we 're going to reexamine this thing . 
the average person is going to take a look at that and say , suspicions confirmed . 
they 're a bunch of animals . 
how can you really deal with an environment where you 're going to lose everything . 
forty deaths . 
there are forty people that are dead as a result of that . 
i know . 
it 's really ridiculous . 
and i 'm just trying to determine how you weigh rodney getting the hell beat out of him against forty deaths . 
and i 'm very upset that the news media has not identified those deaths and pursued it because i 'm interested in the circumstances surrounding this thing . 
those deaths . 
is it a looter that got shot by a store owner ? 
no tears . 
or just an innocent bystander or somebody got actually beat to death or what . 
but i suspect a number of them . 
you see film of people being pulled out of a car and shot in the street . 
or beaten . 
and my reaction is i would have run over fifty people rather than stop . 
and there would have been just nothing but carnage after if i 'd been at the wheel . 
no one would have stopped me . 
that 's exactly how i feel too . 
they would n't have stopped my car for anything had i seen them coming . 
but i was just wondering since you 're back east and a little closer to the bigger cities than we are in idaho here . 
i 'm inside the beltway . 
you know how they always say inside the beltway , they think thus 
and i say wait a minute , 
i 'm inside the beltway 
and i do n't think like that . 
i 'm a government employee . 
in what section of the government do you work ? 
i 'm with the f b i . 
that 's interesting . 
and the reason i 'm doing this whole thing is because rick , who 's another government employee wanted segments of my speech , that were done a year ago 
and he wanted another collection a year later . 
and so this is my seventh call . 
a year ago i did eleven calls . 
i see . 
and you say you have some strong feelings about the issue ? 
i do as far as immigration as a whole goes . 
i think that we simply must start accepting everybody in the world . 
there just is not going to be room for all of us . 
we do n't have jobs now . 
i think when we come to a time of recession that it 's particularly important that we shut our doors at that time . 
i hope you 're one of the employed right now . 
i am one of the unemployed right now . 
i was a systems analysis and programmer for an oil company 
and i applied for one set of jobs with a company here in dallas that they had two hundred openings 
but they had two thousand applications . 
and i know that there are a lot of foreigners here doing my line of work . 
and , of course , i 'm not perfectly happy about not having a job . 
how do you feel ? 
i 'm a little bit ambivalent . 
and i think one of the problems with immigration policy like any other political problem is that people are not willing to discuss it in terms of what really is driving it . 
they 're not willing to tell the truth . the same way with issues of race and things like that . 
right now i believe there are two policies that the government uses to modulate immigration . 
three actually . 
one is at the high end , 
they always want to be able to do some brain draining . 
they always like to be able to attract the einsteins or the professor chou 
they 'd like to be able to get the top people in any field 
and so they can almost always find room for someone like that . 
at the bottom end , they are always willing to let in cheap labor if it lowers the cost of doing business in some particular area and has strong support from the , powerful people in that area . 
those are two things that i think are going on . although i do n't think the politicians would tell you that . 
and i think you 're right in both cases . 
and then the , third thing is the political aspect of letting steam come out from under the lid in mexico . 
they can not close off the mexican border . not because it 's physically impossible but because the explosion that would take place in mexico would spill over to this country 
so they keep allowing the pressure cooker to let off steam . 
and i think probably it 's pretty important right there . 
how do you feel about haitian immigration ? 
that 's one of the few things i found myself in agreement with pat buchanan . 
i think they 're a very difficult group to integrate into society . 
they 're very difficult group to find jobs and , places for . 
and so i do n't deny that we may have been involved in causing the problem in that they 're pretty miserable where they are . 
but i 'm not to sympathetic about letting large numbers of haitians in . 
actually i feel that if we accepted these people that we would eventually have almost the total population here . 
and it would have nothing to do with political situations . 
it would have to do with poverty . 
but . if you let them in a million at a time , it would n't make that big a bulge in the population . 
have you been to southern florida ? 
i know about it . 
it is now with haitians the way it was with cubans twenty years ago . 
and the two of them together . 
it 's just as well , 
it 's hardly america anymore . 
on the other hand the ironic thing about this is that there 's nobody more full of the entrepreneurial american spirit than our first generation immigrant . 
so there 's a lot to be said for having a steady stream of people who know how it is someplace else coming in . 
but there 's some differences in the immigrants , that we 're getting now . 
i particularly have a problem with the illegal immigration . 
i think , probably a great deal of what you say is true about the legals . 
but the majority of the illegal immigration we 're getting now , they do not come here to blend into america . 
, they do n't bother to learn our language 
i really feel strongly about this . 
we send a lot of money to mexico . 
around here we have a program where we separate the bottles and the cans and the plastic stuff from the newspapers . 
they 're collected twice a month and the trash and this bottled stuff that is put in a little blue bin that 's picked up and sorted out into a truck . 
so they actually have about three passes at this collection . one for the regular trash , one for the bottles and cans and one for the newspapers . 
but i gather you do not separate the bottles and cans . 
they do that on the truck . 
they separate them as they , dump them . 
and one guy comes around with his truck and dumps it all in there . 
and i think they 're running out of . 
the sanitary landfill is running out . 
you must have come to washington at least once . 
i know . 
not only have i come to washington but i find it very amusing that the thing that was just instituted here is very similar . 
that is we also have blue bins . 
we also separate newspapers from all of the other stuff which goes into the bin and gets separated in the truck 
and landfill space is , in deed , the driving factor here . 
and , in fact despite all of our open space out here , landfill space is still very hard to come by . 
you 've got a lot of nothing out there , 
there 's got to be a crevice between two mountains that nobody gives a doggone about that you could use for landfill . . 
but if somebody can make a regulation about it , they will . 
what unique things you think that you can do about it in los alamos ? 
other than nuking it . 
other than nuking it . 
in fact , los alamos has done a fair amount of research in recycling things in general . 
it involves , for instance creating biological organisms which can remove heavy elements like selenium , and barium and other things from waste material in general . and purify the waste of specific nasty elements . 
that 's pretty upscale trash situation . 
i do n't think anybody around here would understand all those exotic techniques getting rid of the heavy metals . 
and the thing that just was in the local news bulletin was , somebody made some special polymers that have the ability to make certain actinide elements adhere to them . 
they 've looked at plutonium and uranium and some other similar things to try to remove those from radio active waste 
and , again , this is driven by all of the documentation and e s and h considerations that people are worrying about much more than they should . 
actually i 've been involved in recycling for . 
back when i was in graduate school , i did all of the recycling of the paper from the computer center 
and in fact i think i was the first person in our department to have my thesis published on recycled paper . 
that 's certainly getting into the swim of things . 
i think it should go to the heart of the matter though and say , guy , 
everybody gets five pounds of garbage that they can throw away . 
but more than that every week you 've got to pay by the pound . 
i think they 'd be very careful about how they bought stuff . 
i think that 's a wonderful idea . 
the only alternative i would see is if you did it by volume rather than by weight it would speak more directly to the space needs and the landfill 
and it would also cause people to compact their garbage more . 
and limiting the volume is probably a little bit closer to the real problem than limiting the weight . 
of course those big trucks probably are far more efficient in packing than any kind of little household compactor . 
it 's a opportunity to stay alive really . instead of trying to exist on the good health of my youth . 
and what i like to do is i like to stretch out 
and i like to run , 
i like to run , get my heartbeat up . 
i like to run about two and a half miles . 
and then i like to work out on the bailey life cycle machines up here at the holiday spa . 
i 've had a regiment now for about ten , fifteen years of doing that 
and i kind of think it 's a lot of work 
but i think it 's a lot of work 
but i think it 's the amount of effort that 's required to stay healthy , . 
i have a sedentary job 
and unless you do something like that , you 're going to get sick . 
i 'm pretty bad about that . 
i 'm lazy . 
i should , i know 
i always say that i need to start running 
and i 'm going to try and do that this summer . 
because i never have time . 
i always put it off . 
by the time i get back from classes it 's late at night 
and i do n't feel like going back over to the gym and running on the track or whatever . 
because i 'm getting a gut here . 
i got to get back into shape . 
two years ago i started having trouble with my knee . 
i figured it 'll go away . 
i 've had to reduce my program 
and i 've gained fifteen pounds . 
i need to get back into swimming instead of running . 
if i ca n't run , i should be able to swim . 
i 'm such a terrible swimmer 
and i really feel i can dedicate about an hour and fifteen minutes to this effort . 
but if it gets longer than that i start not doing anything . 
so i got a real problem in that regard . 
you obviously are not an exercise buff 
or else you 'd be out there doing it . 
i do it , i guess , 
i 'm going to do it because i want to get in shape . 
once i get into it and if i get into better shape then it wo n't be as much of a chore to me . 
it 's always a chore . 
i started doing this when i was about thirty-five 
and now i 'm fifty-five . 
and i just know that i 'm going to get blown away with some piece of nonsense . 
some health related thing is going to blow me away . 
that 's the same way , 
i got too much weight on right now . 
i need to lose fifty pounds . 
i need to lose at least twenty , . 
but it 's just i 'm busy . 
i 'm doing a lot of traveling 
and it creates a problem when you 're on the road . 
what other programs other than running ? 
have you ever done anything at all ? 
i have . 
sit-ups 
or , also last summer i was doing nautilus 
or last year i belong to a club right here . 
got kind of expensive to renew . 
they wanted another fifty dollars . 
that was a little bit too much money . 
but doing a mix of nautilus and free weights . i like that . 
what club are you with ? 
i 'm sorry ? 
what club were you with ? 
it 's called city sports , downtown washington . 
so you 're downtown . 
i go to george washington university . 
you 're down there on twentieth and eighteenth and f g . 
it 's plaza . 
there 's a holiday spa down there on k street something like that . 
but i go to the holiday spa here in alexandria 
and that 's pretty good . 
but evening time it gets pretty busy . 
but generally i can get in and get a program . 
but i need to rededicate myself to doing this 
and i got a problem ever since my knee went bad , of getting back solidly into it . 
i 've been doing this for fifteen , twenty years . 
and i know it 's going to bite me in the ass 
and so i really do n't want to , back off on it . 
it 's something , 
i think i 'm young , 
i should get started getting into shape . 
i do n't want to , 
at one point it 's going to be too late to do it . . 
when you 're young , you can abuse all your systems 
and you can recover . 
when you get to be my age and you start abusing your systems , you get blown away . and just wind up having to kiss your ass good-bye . 
why do n't you start ? 
i do n't know . 
i refinished a couple of old dressers that were handed down . 
it 's nice tongue and groove construction . 
i 've been pretty successful with that . 
things you already owned or things that you 've picked up just to do that ? 
what ? 
are they things you already owned 
or you pick them up just to do that refinishing ? 
i 've done some other things too . . 
i 've done both . 
my wife has picked up a couple of things saying if we could refinish that , that would be a beautiful piece of furniture 
and we 've done it a couple of times . 
i guess that we 've been fairly successful with those . 
that 's a kind of low risk sort of project , is n't it . 
that 's a good way to get started . 
i have a , really nice desk . a nicer desk than i could afford . which i got because my sister who worked in a hospital liberated it after a fire 
and we stripped it all the way down and refinished it 
and it turned out to be a nice desk . 
maple top or something of that sort . 
i , put together a , rolltop desk from scratch . 
a kit . 
. i 'm jealous . 
still had to cut it and everything , 
but it was fun . 
i do things that might be too crude to be called woodworking . 
i 've built my own deck and things like that . 
i 've done the same like the trim around the house the baseboards and things like that . 
and i definitely have begun to accumulate tools too . 
i picked up a bunch of craftsman tools from the forties that my wife 's father owned when he was alive 
and so i do have a band saw and a router and things like that out in the garage . 
but i ca n't say i use them very often . 
i 'm looking at trying to get a router right now . 
they come in handy at the most unusual times . 
i bought myself a template for making mortices and doors 
and that 's a whole lot easier than doing it with a chisel . 
i 'll bet . 
but i 've also used them for rabbeting because rabbeting on my radial arm saw is a little bit uncertain . 
so , i got one for christmas a few years ago and used it quite a bit for the first eight months i had it 
and now i use it twice a year maybe . 
my brother 's used it a lot for making drawers . 
i do n't know , 
what 's your opinion of what a good router is like ? 
because he was tell me the ones that you dial in are n't all that great . 
they 've plastic parts and stuff . 
the ones that what ? 
that you dial in on the side . 
i have never even looked at one closely . 
the little use that i 've gotten from my router , i would spend my money on the bits . 
i have a medium quality craftsman router 
how strong is it ? 
it 's strong enough for any job where you do n't try to take more than three-eighths of an inch at a time . 
any time you buy a tool as a package the bits that they give you are low end . 
so a good set of bits is probably going to run you a hundred dollars 
and if you 're going to use for a lifetime i suppose it 's worth it . 
because , 
i imagine if i go and sharpen them myself they wo n't last . 
and i 've never had the bits sharpened . 
they really get hot do n't they ? 
and they dull after awhile . 
especially , i did some cabinets in ash and oak 
and that wears a bit down . 
we remodeled and saved a bunch of really nice ash cabinets which had been in the original , remodeling of our kitchen . 
and i saved them and built an oven cabinet out of one and another cabinet out of another by using the faces and so forth . 
and routing hardwood will take the edge off a cheap bit pretty fast . 
i 've cut some one by eight oak before . 
was that fun . 
big solid pieces of oak are just tough . 
and then you take the blade to get sharpened . 
that was with a circular saw . 
is this going to be fun ? 
i 've used mine on treated wood 
and now all my blades need sharpening . because treated wood will also chew them up . 
treated wood can really make you sick too . 
